1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
Choo-choo, choo-choo, chooka-chooka, choo-choo,
Choo-choo, choo-choo, chooka-chooka, choo-choo,
Choo-choo, choo-choo, chooka-chooka, choo-choo,
Chooka-choo-choo, chooka-chooka, choo.

One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight,
A, B, C, D, E, F, G.
Hoodoo, voodoo, seven, twenty-one, two,
Haystack, hoe-stack, hey do the hoe-ta,
High boga, low joker, ninety-nine, a zero,
Sidewalk, streetcar, dance a goofy dance.

Choo-choo, choo-choo, chooka-chooka, choo-choo,
Choo-choo, choo-choo, chooka-chooka, choo-choo,
Choo-choo, choo-choo, chooka-chooka, choo-choo,
Choo-choo, choo-choo, chooka-chooka, choo.

One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight,
A, B, C, D, E, F, G.
Blackbird, blue jay, one, two, three, four,
Trash-stack, jump back, E, F, G.
Big man, little man, fat man, skinny man,
Grasshopper, green snake, hold my hand.Choo-choo, choo-choo, chooka-chooka, choo-choo,
Choo-choo, choo-choo, chooka-chooka, choo-choo,
Choo-choo, choo-choo, chooka-chooka, choo-choo,
Choo-choo, choo-choo, chooka-chooka, choo.

Mama cat, tom cat, diapers on the clothesline,
2, 4, 6, 8, run and hide.
Crazy man, lazy girl, pony on a tin can,
I'll be yours and you'll be mine.Choo-choo, choo-choo, chooka-chooka, choo-choo,
Choo-choo, choo-choo, chooka-chooka, choo-choo,
Choo-choo, choo-choo, chooka-chooka, choo-choo,
Choo-choo, choo-choo, chooka-chooka, choo.One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight,
A, B, C, D, E, F, G.
And one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight,
A, B, C, D, E, F, G. 

1913 Massacre
Take a trip with me in 1913,
To Calumet, Michigan, in the copper country.
I will take you to a place called Italian Hall,
Where the miners are having their big Christmas ball.The piano played a slow funeral tune,
And the town was lit up by a cold Christmas moon,
The parents they cried and the miners they moaned,
"See what your greed for money has done." 

Aginst Th' Law
It´s aginst th´ law to walk, It´s aginst th´ law to talk
It´s against th´ law to loaf, It´s aginst th´ law to work
It´s aginst th´ law to read, It´s aginst th´ law to write
It´s aginst th´ law to be a black or brown or white.Ever´thing’s aginst th´ law
I´m a low pay daddy singing th´ high price bluesIt´s aginst th´ law to eat, It´s aginst th´ law to drink
It´s aginst th´ law to worry, It´s aginst th´ law to think
It´s aginst th´ law to marry or to try to settle down
It´s aginst th´ law to ramble like a bum from town to townEver´thing’s aginst th´ law
I´m a low pay daddy singing th´ high price bluesIt´s aginst th´ law to come, It´s against th´ law to go
It´s against th´ law to ride, It´s against th´ law to roll
It´s aginst th´ law to hug, It´s against th´ law to kiss
It´s against th´ law to shoot, It´s against th´ law to missEver´thing’s aginst th´ law
I´m a low pay daddy singing th´ high price bluesIt´s aginst th´ law to gamble, It´s aginst th´ law to roam
It´s aginst th´ law to organize or try to build a home
It´s aginst th´ law to sing, It´s aginst th´ law to dance
It´s aginst th´ law to tell you th´ trouble on my handsEver’thing in Winston Salem is aginst th’ law
I’ma low pay daddy singin’ th’ high price blues. 

Aint A Gonna Do
 

Ain’ta Gonna Grieve
I long to fly away to heaven
Pass beyond that shining door
See my master and my savior
High away to heaven soarI have made myself my promise
Never again to grieve my lord
I will live his gospel story
Sweetest story ever told:
Ain’ta gonna grieve my lord no more
Ain’ta gonna grieve my lord no more
Ain’ta gonna grieve my lord any more, not any more.Guess I’ve lived my life in blindness
I have lived a life of wrong
Now my heart runs full with gladness
Singing out my gospel songMany a faith’s too easy shaken
Many a heart too full of fear
Many an eye is too mistaken
Grievous to my savior dearMake today this golden promise
Make this vow forever more
Live the story and the glory
Dwell in peace forever moreMake today this one agreement
Change my thoughts from greed to love
Enter soft into my chamber
Pray for light to show me through 

Airline To Heaven
If the world looks wrong
And your money’s spent and gone
And your friend has turned away
You can get away to Heaven
On this aeroplane
Just bow your head and pray.Them’s got ears let them hear
Them’s got eyes let them see
Turn Your Eyes to the Lord of the skies
Take that airline Plane
It will Take You Home again.
Yes, to your home beyond the skies.Well, a lot of people guess
Some say no and some say Yes
Will it take some and leave some behind?
But you will surely know
When to the airport go
To leave this world behindOh, a lot of speakers speak
And a lot of preachers preach
When you lay their salary on the line
But to bow your head and pray
Is the only earthly way
That you can fly to Heaven on time.
That you can reach Heaven on time.Your ticket you obtain
On this heavenly airline plane
You leave your sins behind
You have got to take this flight
Might be daytime, might be night,
But you can’t see your way if you’re blind. 

All Work Together
My mommy told me an' the teacher told me, too,
There's all kinds of work that I can do:
Dry my dishes, sweep my floor,
But if we all work together it won't take very long.:
We all work together with a wiggle and a giggle,
We all work together with a giggle and a grin.
We all work together with a wiggle and a giggle,
We all work together with a giggle and a grin.My sister told me,
Brother told me, too,
Lots an' lotsa work
That I can do.
I can bring her candy.
Bring him gum.
But if we all work together
Hadn't oughtta take long. SoMy daddy said,
And my grandpaw, too,
There's work, worka, work
For me to do.
I can paint my fence.
Mow my lawn.
But if we all work together,
Well, it shouldn't take long. SoI tell Mama an' Daddy,
Grampaw an' Granmaw, too,
I tell my sister an' my brother,
Lotsa work for you to do.
You can bring me pennie
And candy and gum;
But if we all work together
'Twon't take so very long. And soWe all work together with a wiggle and a giggle,
We all work together with a giggle and a grin.
We all work together with a wiggle and a giggle,
We all work together with a giggle and a grin.
With a wiggle and a giggle and a google and a goggle
And a jigger and a jagger and a giggle and a grin. 

All Ya Gotta Do Is Touch Me
:

All ya gotta do is touch me, touch me;
All ya gotta do is touch me good.
All ya gotta do is touch me, touch me;
All ya gotta do is touch me good.

All ya gotta do is touch me easy
All ya gotta do is touch me slow
All ya gotta do is hug me squeeze me
All ya gotta do is let me know

I fully aim, to get my soul known again
As the maniac, the saint, the sinner, the drinker, the thinker, the queer
I am the works, the whole works
And it's not 'till you have called me all of these things
That I feel satisfied, I feel satisfied.



All ya gotta do is kiss me, kiss me
All ya gotta do is kiss me nice
All ya gotta do is touch me all day
All ya gotta do's kiss me all night

No one will ever know, when you are ready, ready for me
But I know when you feel ready for me
And you know when I feel ready for you
The others will never know
They will never know, in all of their words



Let me see the way you move
Warm skin soft with a cat step groove
Let me do what you hope I'll do
Let me think what you want me to. 

All You Fascists
I’m gonna tell you fascists
You may be surprised
The people in this world
Are getting organized
You’re bound to lose
You fascists bound to loseRace hatred cannot stop us
This one thing we know
Your poll tax and Jim Crow
And greed has got to go
You’re bound to lose
You fascists bound to lose.All of you fascists bound to lose:
I said, all of you fascists bound to lose:
Yes sir, all of you fascists bound to lose:
You’re bound to lose! You fascists:
Bound to lose!People of every color
Marching side to side
Marching ‘cross these fields
Where a million fascists dies
You’re bound to lose
You fascists bound to lose!I’m going into this battle
And take my union gun
We’ll end this world of slavery
Before this battle’s won
You’re bound to lose
You fascists bound to lose! 

Along In The Sun & The Rain
Along in the sun and the rain
Along in the sun and the rain
Long oh long oh long oh long
Along in the sun and the rainHey, boys, I've come a long ways
Well, boys, I've come a long ways
Oh boys, I've come a long lonesome ways
Along in the sun and the rainI seen a whole lot of things
I seen a whole lot of things
Yes oh yes, well a whole lot of things
Along in the sun and the rainI kissed a whole lot of lips
I've kissed a whole lot of lips
Lord oh lordy, and a whole lot of lips
Along in the sun and the rainI've seen a lot of towns
I've seen a lot of towns
I've seen a lot of towns
Along in the sun and the rainI've had a lot of fights
I've had a lot of fights
I've had a lot of fights, man
Along in the sun and the rainI've shook a lot of hands
I shook a lot of hands
I shook a lot of hands, poor boys
Along in the sun and the rainI'm gonna get my job done
I'm gonna get my job done
I'm gonna get my job done, oh done
Along in the sun and the rain 

Angel’s Blues
Two girls just give me a fountain pen
I think that’s mighty nice
Reminds me of the joke where the girl
Give her daddy then pen about twice.I like the way she looks
Walks, talks, works, and lays,
I got in trouble over her,
And I’m I’m laying out days.If you must leave me, if you must leave me here
If you must leave me, if you must leave me here
Just leave a cigarette butt, leave a dime for beer.There’s a doctor on my corner
Great big fat man awful stout
He makes me give him money
Just to take my baby out.I woke up every morning
With my woman in my arms
Good girl built like a government mule
And I’d not do her no harm.The women know me everywhere I land
The women know me everywhere I land
I got more little angels, than you’ll find in the promised land.I’d like to have you around me
To wake me up every day
But when my main line comes back home
I wonder what she’ll sayI got a reputation babe, from coast to coast,
I don’t have to tell you no lies
I don’t have to lie nor boastThe women know me everywhere I land
The women know me everywhere I land
I got more little angels, than you’ll find in the promised land.
I got more little angels, than you’ll find in the promised land.
I got more little angels, than you’ll find in the promised land. 

Another Man's Done Gone
Sometimes I think I'm gonna lose my mind
But it don't look like I ever do
I loved so many people everywhere I went
Some too much, others not enoughI don't know, I may go down or up or anywhere
But I feel like this scribbling might stayMaybe if I hadn't of seen so much hard feelings
I might not could have felt other people's
So when you think of me, if and when you do,
Just say, well, another man's done gone
Well, another man's done gone 

Around New York
Around New York
Around New York
And around New York I go
If an atom bomb
Hits New York
It’ll be New York no more 

Ashes To Ashes, Dust To Dust
Ashes to ashes and dust to dust,
Show me a woman that a man can trust.
Snakes on the desert and fish in the sea,
A rattlesnake mama made a sucker out of me.O tell me how long must I have to wait?
Can I get you now or must I hesitate?Bacon to bacon and beans to beans,
I got a cornbread mama in New Orleans.
Turtles in the rivers, alligators in the swamp,
A Louisiana mama keeps a man on the jump.O tell me how long must I have to wait...It's beer to beer and ale to ale,
I got a L.A. mama in the Frisco Jail.
Gold in the mountains, copper in the hills,
They caught my gal with a forty gallon still.O tell me how long must I have to wait...Ham to ham and eggs to eggs
If I don't get a pension I'll have to beg.
There's a lot of crooked politician men;
It would be all right if it wasn't for them.O tell me how long must I have to wait...I tried to get a job all over town;
Seven hundred places they turned me down.
They told me six weeks I could get relief,
But I ain't got a bite to eat.O tell me how long must I have to wait... 

At My Window Sad & Lonely
At my window sad & lonely
Oftimes do I think of thee
Sad and lonely and I wonder
Do you ever think of me?Every day is sad and lonely
Every day is sad and blue
Do you think of me my darling?
As you sail that ocean blue?At my window sad and lonely
Stand and look across the sea
And I sad and lonely wonder
Do you ever think of me?Will you find another sweetheart
In some far and distant land?
Sad and lonely now I wonder
If our boat will ever landShips may ply the stormy ocean
Planes may fly the stormy sky
Sad and lonely but remember
I will love you till I die 

Atom Dance
You go carry heavy water
I’ll get my solar bucket
Mix up with force and gravity
Dance around my atom fire.Fill your sack of fiery forces
Trot down my neutron horses
Get down out of your atom wagon
Dance around my atom fire.Write down your law of numbers
Marriage wings and relativity
I’ll bring my fourth dimension
We’ll sing by the atom fire.Throw on some history pages
Words of your wits and sages
Throw on ten million ages
Warm by the atom fire.Dance around my sweet titanium
Kiss my lips my pretty helium
We’ll look at the flames of nations
Sit here by my atom fire. 

Baltimore To Washington
I've gambled down in the town of Newport News 
The more I gamble, boys, the more I lose 
Baltimore to Washington
Oh Baltimore to Washington 
Oh Baltimore to Washington 
Oh Baltimore to WashingtonOh Baltimore to Washington  
I guess they got troubles, too 

Well, the hobos know me up and down the line 
They don't know the trouble on my mind 
I guess they got troubles, too 
I guess they got troubles too, boys 
I guess they got troubles, too 
I guess they got troubles too, boys 
From Baltimore to Washington 

And the police know me up and down the line 
They don't know the trouble on my hands 
I guess they got troubles, too 
I guess they got trouble too, boy 
I guess they got troubles, too 
I guess the police they've got their troubles, too 
From Baltimore to Washington 
Oh Baltimore to Washington 
Oh Baltimore to Washington 
Oh Baltimore to Washington 
I guess they've got troubles, too 

Going up north, I'm a-going north this fall 
If my luck don't change I won't be back at all 
From Baltimore to Washington 
Oh Baltimore to Washington, boys 
Oh Baltimore to Washington 
Oh Baltimore to Washington 
Well, I guess they got troubles, too 

Be Kind To The Boy On The Road
Who is that boy on the white winding highway?
Why does he roam alone?
Is he looking for life on that white winding highway?
For his parents dealt him trouble at home.And I think he’s wrong standing there on that highway
Oh what a foolish young lad
But you yourself might be standing on that highway
If you had his trouble on your hands.Don’t point your finger at that boy on the highway
As you travel down this road
Either give him your help or pass him with kindness
Cause he’s got all the trouble that he wants

Be No Church Tonight
Preacher Bill come to our house,
One Sunday bright and fine,
To fill his belly with sweet potatoes,
Biscuits, chicken and wine.
He took our Nelly back up the barn,
And carried on a sight,
I heard him whisper in her ear,
"There 'll be no church tonight.":
"There'll be no church tonight, my dear,
There'll be no church tonight!
One more kiss from your red lips,
And there'll be now church tonight!"While peeking through my knot-hole,
I seen him take her hand,
Put his hand upon her bosom,
And called it the promised land.The mountains of life and glory's hills,
As he touched her leg so light,
He gasped for air and said a prayer,
"There'll be no church tonight!"She lay on a pile of hay,
And gently closed her eyes,
She said the word of the 23rd psalm,
To the good Lord and the skies;
What I seen through that knot-hole,
I cannot sing or write,
But now I know the reason why,
There'll be no church tonight. 

Beech Haven Ain't My Home
I suppose that Old Man Trump knows just how much racial hate
He stirred up in that bloodpot of human hearts
When he drawed that color line
Here at his Beach Haven family project

Beach Haven ain't my home!
No, I just can't pay this rent!
My money's down the drain,
And my soul is badly bent!
Beach Haven is Trump’s Tower
Where no black folks come to roam,
No, no, Old Man Trump!
Old Beach Haven ain't my home!

I'm calling out my welcome to you and your man both
Welcoming you here to Beach Haven
To love in any way you please and to have some kind of a decent place
To have your kids raised up in.
   
Beach Haven ain't my home!
No, I just can't pay this rent!
My money's down the drain,
And my soul is badly bent!
Beach Haven is Trump’s Tower
Where no black folks come to roam,
No, no, Old Man Trump!
Old Beach Haven ain't my home! *The recorded version of this song is available on YouTube.

Because You Took Me In Out Of The Rain
 

Bed On The Floor
Make me a bed right down on your floor,
Make me a bed right down on your floor,
I'll lay my head in a bed on your floor.I'm a poor lonesome boy, I'm a long ways from home,
I'll lay my head in a bed on your floor.Clock striking midnight and daylight to go,
I'll lay my head in a bed on your floor.Sheriff on my trail with a big forty-four,
I'll lay my head in a bed on the floor.Bed on the floor, baby, bed on the floor,
I'll lay a bed right down on your floor,
I'll lay my head in a bed on your floor.Poor lonesome boy, I'm a long ways from home,
I'm a poor lonesome boy, I'm a long ways form home,
I'll lay my head right down on your floor. 

Been Down The River Too Long
I doubt if I can write my right name down;
I been down this river too long;
I doubt if I can find your right house now;
I been down this river too long.:
I've been down this river mud too long;
Been down this river bank too long;
Chained on this prison farm too long;
Been down this river too long.I doubt if I can 'member your right name now;
I been down this river too long;
I doubt if I write you a post card home;
I been down this river too long.I don't know if you're livin' or dead;
I been down this river too long;
All I've got left is my achin' head;
I been down this river too long.I just about come to the end of my days;
I been down this river too long;
Rider boss wasted my life away;
I been down this river too long.I'm chained to a big iron ball for life;
I been down this river too long;
I cain't find you an' make y' my wife;
I been down this river too long. 

Been Out On An Ocean Trip
Been out an Ocean trip
Now we're heading home
It takes a salty sailor
To sing this sailor song:I know that in the morning
The Captain he will say
Sign your names and beat it.
And when I get my pay.Oh the way I feel
As I go ashore
To shoot my money away!
The Lawyer takes my salary.The preacher gets my wages
The chippies get my money
The police gets my pay check
And the Devil he gets the rest!The bar room took me easy
The church house took me greasy
The jail house drove me crazy
And the devil he dug me grave!The girlfriend says I love you
Just like the stars above you
Then up comes her husband
And the devil he got the leavings!I woke up in a mudhole
With nothing in my sack
I started back to ship deck
And the devil he took me back!Singing: Take it easy little seaman
Take it greasy seaman
Take it slow and easy
And the devil will follow you home! 

Belle Starr
Belle Starr, Belle Starr, tell me where you have gone
Since old Oklahoma's sandhills you did roam?
Is it Heaven's wide streets that you're tying your reins
Or singlefooting somewhere below?Eight lovers they say combed your waving black hair
Eight men knew the feel of your dark velvet waist
Eight men heard the sounds of your tan leather skirt
Eight men heard the bark of the guns that you wore.Cole Younger was your first and the father of your girl
And the name that you picked for your daughter was Pearl
Cole robbed a bank and he drawed the life line
But I heard he was pardoned after Twenty Years time.Your Cherokee lover, Blue Duck was his name
He loved you in the sand hills before your great fame
I heard he stopped a bullet in Eighteen Eighty Five
And your Blue Duck's no longer alive.You took Jim Reed to your warm wedding bed
And from out of your love was born the boy, Ed
A pal killed Jim Reed by the dark of the moon
And your son Ed was blowed down in a drunken saloon.Then there was Bob Younger you loved him well
He rode with the James boys out down the long trail
They caught him in Minnesota along with the gang
He died down in jail in the cell or the chain.You loved Mister William Clarke Quantrill
And his Civil War guerrillas in the Missouri hills
He hit Lawrence Kansas and fought them still
And when he rode out Two Hundred lay killed.They say could have, they whisper you might
Have loved Frank James on a couple of nights
He fought the Midland Railroad almost to death
Then in Nineteen Fifteen Frank drawed his last breath.They say it could be, they say maybe so,
That you loved Jesse James that desperado,
Jesse got married, had a wife and a son,
Was shot down at home by the Ford brothers guns.Belle Starr, Belle Starr, your time's getting late,
But how is Jim Younger, did you hear his fate?He was jailed and then pardoned for all he had done,
And he blowed his own brains out in Nineteen and One.Eight men they say combed that black waving hair
Eight men knew the feel of your dark velvet waist
Eight men heard the sounds of your tan leather skirt
Eight men heard the bark of the guns that you wore.Belle Starr, Belle Starr, tell me where have you gone
Since old Oklahoma's sand hills you did roam?
Is it Heaven's wide streets that you're tying your reins
Or singlefooting somewhere below? 

Better World
:There's a better world that's a-coming
There's a better world that's a-coming
There's a better world that's a-coming
I'll tell you why why why
And don't you see see see
And don't you know know know
Hey hey hey
There's a better world that's a-coming
I'll tell you why why why
There's a better world that's a-coming
I'll tell you whyThere's a better world that's a-coming
Tell you why why why
Better world a-coming I'll tell you why
Out of marching out of battling
You can hear the chains a-rattling
There's a better world that's a-coming
I'll tell you whyNow there's a better world that's a-coming
And there's a better world that's a-coming
And there's a better world that's a-coming
I'll tell you why why why
Why why why
There's a better world that's a-coming
And don't you see see see
Better world that's a-coming
And don't you see see see
Better world that's a-coming
And don't you seeWell there's a better world that's a-coming
I'll tell you why why why
better world that's a-coming I'll tell you why
We will beat'em on the land in the sea and in the sky
There's a better world that's a-coming
I'll tell you whyWell there's a better world that's a-coming
Don't you see see see
Better world that's a-coming don't you see
When we'll all be union and we'll all be free
There's a better world that's coming
don't you seeThere's a better world a-coming
Don't you see see see
Better world that's coming don't you see
When we'll all be union and we'll all be free
There's a better world that's a-coming
Don't you see 

Bigger
:I'm gonna get bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger!
I'm gonna get bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger!
I'm gonna get bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger!
I'm gonna get bigger I'm gonna get bigger
I'll be just as big as you or biggerI'm growing higher and higher and lots higher
I'm growing higher and higher and lots higher
My feet and my head, my hands and my face
I'm gonna drink my orange juice, babe
I'll be just as high as you or higher 

Biggest Thing That Man Has Ever Done
I'm just a lonesome traveler, The Great Historical Bum.
Highly educated from history I have come.
I built the Rock of Ages, 'twas in the Year of One
And that was about the biggest thing that man had ever done.I worked in the Garden of Eden, that was the year of two,
Joined the apple pickers union, I always paid my due;
I'm the man that signed the contract to raise the rising sun,
And that was about the biggest thing that man had ever done.I was straw boss on the Pyramids, the Tower of Babel, too;
I opened up the ocean let the migrant children through,
I fought a million battles and I never lost a one,
And that was about the biggest thing that man had ever done.I beat the daring Roman, I beat the daring Turk,
Defeated Nero's army with thirty minutes work,
I fought the greatest leaders and I licked them everyone
And that was about the biggest thing that man had ever done.I stopped old Caesar's Romans, and I stopped the Kubla Khan;
I took but half an hour's work to beat the Pharaoh's bands;
I knocked old Kaiser Bill flat, then I dumped the bloody Huns,
And that's about the biggest thing that man has ever done.I was in the Revolution when we set the country free;
Me and a couple of Indians that dumped the Boston tea;
We won the battle at Valley Forge, the battle of Bully Run;
And that was about the biggest thing that man has ever done.Next, we won the slavery war, some other folks and me,
And every slave from sea to sea was all turned loose by me.
I divorced old Madam slavery, and I wed this freedom dame.
And that's about the biggest thing that man has ever done.And then I took to farming on the great midwestern plain,
The dust it blowed a hundred years, but never come a rain'
Well, me and a million other fellas left there on the run
And that was about the biggest thing that man has ever done.I clumb the rocky canyon where the Columbia River rolls,
Seen the salmon leaping the rapids and the falls
The big Grand Coulee Dam in the state of Washington
Is just about the biggest thing that man has ever done.There's a building in New York that you call the Empire State
I rode the rods to 'Frisco to walk the Golden Gate
I've seen every foot of film that Hollywood has run
But Coulee is the biggest thing that man has ever done.Three times the size of Boulder or the highest pyramid
Makes the Tower of Babel a plaything for a kid
From the rising of the river to the setting of the sun
The Coulee is the biggest thing that man has ever done.There was a man across the ocean, I guess you knew him well,
His name was Adolf Hitler, goddam his soul to hell;
We kicked him in the panzers and put him on the run,
And that was about the biggest thing that man has ever done.I'm living with my freedom wife in this big land we built;
It takes all forty eight States for me to spread my quilt.
Our kids are several millions now; they run from sun to sun.
And that's about the biggest thing that man has ever done.I built mines and mills and factories to run for Uncle Sam;
I turned th' ploughs and wheels to feed my soldiers in your lands;
This Nazi job's a tough 'un, it'll take us everyone,
'Cause this is about the biggest thing that man has ever done.There's warehouse guys and teamsters and guys that skin the cats
Guys that run my steel mill, my furnace and my blast
We'll stop the Axis rattlesnakes and thieves of old Nippon
And that will be the biggest thing that man has ever done.I'd better quit my talking, 'cause I told you all I know,
But please remember, pardner, wherever you may go,
The people are building a peaceful world, and when the job is done
That'll be the biggest thing that man has ever done.I better quit my talking now; I told you all I know,
But please remember, pardner, wherever you may go,
I'm older than your old folks, and I'm younger than the young,
And I'm about the biggest thing that man has ever done. 

Billy The Kid
I'll tell you the story of Billy the Kid,
And I'll tell of the things that this young outlaw did
Say out in the west when the country was young
When a gun was your law and your law was your gunNow the Mexican maidens liked Billy so well
How many he had, no expert could tell
While singing and drinking he come to his end
Shot down by Pat Garrett who once was his friendPat Garrett rode up to the window that night
And the desert was still and the moonlight was bright
And he listened awhile as the Kid told his tale
Of shooting the guard at the Las Cruces jailYou sweet Mexican maidens, come give me your hand
At the age of sixteen I killed my first man
It was out in New Mexico, long long ago
When a man's only chance was his old .44I rode down the border and robbed in Juarez
I drank to the maidens, the happiest of days
My picture is posted from Texas to Maine
And women and riding and robbing's my gameOn the same night that young Billy died
He said to his friends, "I just ain't satisfied.
There's twenty-one men that I've put bullets through
And the sheriff of this county's gonna make twenty-two."Pat Garrett then fired and his thumb-buster cracked
And Billy fell dead, he was blowed through the back
Pat rode away and the Kid's laying dead
And this was the last song of Billy the Kid 

Birds and Ships
The birds are singing
In your eyes today;
The flowers blooming in your smile;
The wind and sun
Are in the words you say;
Where might your lonesome lover be?Birds may be singing
In my eyes this day;
Sweet flowers may blossom when i smile;
My soul is stormy
And my heart blows wild;
My sweet heart rides a ship at sea. 

Black Diamond
Black diamond was a race horse, he held a high head
And the mane on his fore top is as fine as silk thread
I rode him in Texas, I rode him in Maine,
And I never did lose boys, I always did gain.Come all of you good gamblers from far and near
She's likely to stumble, she's likely to fall,
And you"ll find old Black Diamond ahead of them all.Come all of you gamblers from far and wide
And lay down your money when the Black Diamond rides,
Sit tight in your saddle, let slack on your rein,
You never will lose boys, you always will gain.When the horses went racing, about half way 'round
The gray mare she stumbled, and fell to the ground.
And away out yonder ahead of the rest
Was my noble Black Diamond, the finest and best.California's races has good ponies, too,
But I rode my Black Diamond and around them we flew.
Kentucky breeds horses that hold a good pace
But I rode my Black Diamond and won every race.Florida's green pastures has champions to boast
But they follow behind when we come to the post
I stroked his black mane and I chuckled and laughed
The others were trailing by a neck and a half.I win my good money and fill up my sack
'Cause it's always Black Diamond that's first down the track,
So bet him to win Boys, you never will fail,
'Cause it's always Black Diamond comes first down the rail.This life is a gamble, it's a win, lose or draw
So I make love and gamble wherever I go
I'm friendly to strangers, and I love a good girl,
And I love my Black Diamond, the best in the world. 

Black Wind Blowing
Theres a black wind blowing in the cotton field, Honey
Theres a black wind blowing in the cotton field, Baby
Theres a black wind blowing in the cotton field
And O’ how funny it makes me feel,
Baby, sweet thing, darlingThere’s a long black cloud a hanging in the sky, Honey
There’s a long black cloud a hanging in the sky, Baby
There’s a long black cloud a hanging in the sky
Weathers gonna break and hells gonna fly
Baby, sweet thing, darlingCotton’s pretty thin yonder on the hill, Honey
Cotton’s pretty thin yonder on the hill, Baby
Cotton’s pretty thin yonder on the hill
Won’t clear a greenback dollar bill
Baby, sweet thing, darlingWork shade and back to the buzzard wing, Honey
Work shade and back to the buzzard wing, Baby
Work shade and back to the buzzard wing
Clouds are gonna bust and cry down rain
Baby, sweet thing, darling 

Bling Blang
You get a hammer and I'll get a nail;
You catch a bird and I'll catch a snail;
You bring a board and I'll bring a saw,
and we'll build a house for the ba-by-o:
Bling blang, ham-mer with my ham-mer,
Zingo zango cutting with my saw.I'll grab some mud and you grab some clay
So when it rains it won't wash away.
We'll build a house that'll be so strong,
The winds will sing my baby a song.Run bring rocks and I'll bring bricks.
A nice pretty house we'll build and fix.
We'll jump inside when the cold wind blows
And kiss our pretty little baby-o.You bring a ladder and I'll get a box.
Build our house out of bricks and blocks.
When the snowbird flies and the honeybee comes,
We'll feed our baby on honey in the comb. 

Blood of The Lamb
Are your garments all spotless?
Are they white as the snow?
Are you washed in the blood of the lamb?
Is your soul all spotless?
Is it clean as the snow?
Are you washed in the blood of the lamb?I am washed, yes I'm washed
I am washed in the blood
I'm all washed in the blood of the lamb
I'm all clean I'm all spotless
I'm pure like the snows
I'm all washed in the blood of the lambHave you laid down your burdens?
Have you found peace and rest?
Are you washed in the blood of the lamb?
I've laid down all my troubles
I've found peace and rest
I'm all washed in the blood of the lambHave you learnt to love your neighbors?
Of all colors, creeds and kinds?
Are you washed in the blood of the lamb?
I've learnt to love my peoples
Of all colors, creeds and kinds
I'm all washed in that blood of that lamb 

Blue Eyes
Oh I'm thinking tonight of my Blue Eyes
As I'm sailing far over the sea;
I am thinking tonight of your Blue Eyes,
Dear, I wonder if you ever think of me.We are sailing the greatest Destroyer,
She's as fine as a battleship can be;
Every time we have met with the enemy,
We have blasted the Fascists from the sea.She's as mighty as the rocks in the mountain,
She's as nimble as a sea gull on the wing;
I’ll describe her and tell her glory,
But I cannot disclose her name.When the wild ocean waves rise around us,
And her nose pointing up to the sky;
Then she slides and she glides like a racehorse,
And she'll drop the Fascists dead, by and by.As I stand in the spray and the moonlight,
And I gaze at the waves all around;
I am anxious to meet with our enemy,
We will sink them wherever they are found.When they taste of her shells and her powder,
Of her aircraft of planes and our bombs;
They will either go down in the ocean,
Or turn tail and go back where they're from.Now the war clouds roll over the ocean,
And the war clouds roll around the world;
When we finish with gangsters like Hitler,
I'll come back to my true loving girl. 

Bound For Glory
This train is bound for glory, this train.
This train is bound for glory, this train.
This train is bound for glory,
Don't carry nothing but the righteous and the holy.
This train is bound for glory, this train.This train don't carry no gamblers, this train;
This train don't carry no gamblers, this train;
This train don't carry no gamblers,
Liars, thieves, nor big shot ramblers,
This train is bound for glory, this train.This train don't carry no liars, this train;
This train don't carry no liars, this train;
This train don't carry no liars,
She's streamlined and a midnight flyer,
This train don't carry no liars, this train.This train don't carry no smokers, this train;
This train don't carry no smokers, this train
This train don't carry no smokers,
Two bit liars, small time jokers,
This train don't carry no smokers, this train.This train don't carry no con men, this train;
This train don't carry no con men, this train;
This train don't carry no con men,
No wheeler dealers, here and gone men,
This train don't carry no con men, this train.This train don't carry no rustlers, this train;
This train don't carry no rustlers, this train;
This train don't carry no rustlers,
Sidestreet walkers, two bit hustlers,
This train is bound for glory, this train. 

Bright Clear Day
Oh, I like to walk on a bright clear day, hey, hey, hey (2x)
And I like to run on a bright clear day, hey, hey, hey (2x):
It's a bright clear day, it's a bright clear day, hey, hey, hey
It's a bright clear day, a lovely day, hey, hey, hey
It's a bright clear day, it's a bright clear day, hey, hey, hey
It's a bright clear day, a lovely day, hey, hey, hey.And I like skip on a rainy day, hey, hey, hey (2x)
Yes, I like to hop on a windy day, hey, hey, hey (2x)Well. I like to jump on a cloudy day, hey, hey, hey (2x)
Say, I like to look on a stormy day, hey, hey, hey (2x)Oh, I like to eat on a wintry day, hey, hey, hey (2x)
Yes, I like to drink on a hot summer day, hey, hey, hey (2x) 

Bubble Gum
And a bubble and a bubble,
And I bubble my gum.
Bubble and a bubble,
And I bubble my gum.
Blubber and a blubber,
And I blubber my gum,
A bleeber and a blabber,
And I bubble my gum.

I woke up when the mornin' come,
Bubble and a bubble and I bubble my gum.
Comb my teeth with a wide teeth comb,
Bubble and a bubble and I bubble my gum.

Squirt my toothpaste on my hair,
Stuck my toothbrush in my ear.
Fixed my breakfast in my room,
And I chewed and chewed my bubble-in' gum.Hear a little rooster crow for day,
and I heard him crow ten miles away.
Stirred my oatmeal with my thumb,
And I bubbled and bubbled my bubble-in' gum.Chewed my milk, drank my toast,
I drunk down a big beef roast.
Heard my daddy ask my mom,
Who's that a-bubble-in' bubble-in' gum.My brother walked with me to school,
He said you bubble your gum like a fool.
He offered me a knife, some marbles and gun,
If I would give him my bubble-in' gum.

 

Budded Roses
Little darling, we have parted
From each other we must go
Many a mile may separate us
In this world of sin and woeBut that savior gave the promise
That you'd meet me in the land
Where you said we'd be together
When the roses bloom againDown among the budded roses
Though my heart is sad with pain
I have parted from my darling
Never more to meet againWill this parting be forever?
Will there be no dawning day?
When our hearts will be united
All our worries pass awayNow this parting is of sorrow
Yes, it almost breaks my heart
Tell me, darling, that you love me
When we're many miles apartI will see you up in Heaven
This is my true and earnest prayer
If you love me here on earth, dear
I am sure you'll love me thereDown among the budded roses
Though my heart is sad with pain
I have parted from my darling
Never more to meet again 

Buffalo Gals
I danced all night with a bottle in my hand
A bottle in my hand, a bottle in my hand
O oozed right over in the promised land
Tell me, won't you come out tonight

I danced with a gal with a hole in her stocking
her heel kept a-rockin' and her toe kept a-knockin'
I danced with a gal with a hole in her stocking  
And we danced in the light of the moon

I danced all night with a bottle in my hand
A bottle in my hand, a bottle in my hand
I danced all night with a bottle in my hand
And oozed right over to the promised land

I got a gal that lives on the hill
Lives on the hill, lives on the hill
I've got a gal that lives on the hill
Tell me, won't you come out tonight

The bootlegger's daughter and I love her still
I love her still, I love her still
The bootlegger's daughter and I love her still
Tell me, won't you come out tonight

I danced all night with a bottle in my hand
a bottle in my hand, a bottle in my hand
I danced all night with a bottle in my hand
Oozed right over in the promised land

Hurry up, Joe, and don't go slow
Hurry up, Joe, and don't go slow
Chicken in the bread pan, picking out the dough  
Hurry up, Pa, and on you go

Well, a right foot up, left foot down
swing that gal around and round
right wing up, left wing down
you just go a-kickin' at the floor

I danced all night with a bottle in my hand
a bottle in my hand, a bottle in my hand
I danced all night with a bottle in my hand
and oozed right over in the promised land 

Buffalo Skinners
Come all you jolly skinners, and listen to my song,
There are not many verses, it will not detain you long:
It's concerning some young fellows who did agree to go
and spend one summer pleasantly of the range of the buffalo.'Twas in the town of Jacksboro in the spring of Sev'nty three,
A man by the name of Crego came stepping up to me,
Saying, "How do you do, young fellow, and how would you like to go
And spend one summer pleasantly on the range of the buffalo?""It's me being out of employment, this to Crego I did say:
"This going out on the buffalo range depends upon the pay.
But if you will pay good wages and transportation, too,
I think, sir, I will go with you to the range of the buffalo.""Yes, I will pay good wages, give transportation, too,
Provided you will go with me and stay the summer through:
But if you should grow homesick, come back to Jackboro,
I won't pay transportation from the range of the buffalo."It's now our outfit was complete - seven able-bodied men,
With navy six and needle gun - our troubles did begin:
Our way it was a pleasant one, the route we had to go,
Until we crossed Pease River on the range of the buffalo.It's now we've crossed Pease River, our troubles have begun.
The first dam tail I went to rip, Christ! How I cut my thumb!
While skinning the dam old stinkers our lives they had no show,
For the Indians watched to pick us off while skinning the buffalo.He fed us on such sorry chuck I wished myself most dead,
It was old jerked beef, croton coffee and sour bread.
Pease River's as salty as hell fire, the water I could never go -
O God! I wished I had never come to the range of the buffalo.Our meat it was buffalo hump and iron wedge bread,
And all we had to sleep on was a buffalo robe for a bed:
The fleas and graybacks worked on us, O boys, it was not slow,
I'll tell you there's no worse hell on earth than the range of the buffalo.Our hearts were cased with buffalo hocks, our souls were cased with steel.
And the hardships of that summer would nearly make us reel.
While skinning the damned old stinkers our lives they had no show.
For the Indians waited to pick us off on the Hills of Mexico.The season being near over, old Grego he did say,
The crowd had been extravagant, was in debt to him that day,
We coaxed him and we begged him and still it was no go -
We left old Crego's bones to bleach on the range of the buffalo.Oh, it's now we've crossed Pease River and homeward we are bound,
No more in that hell-fired country shall ever be found.
Go home to our wives and sweethearts, tell others not to go,
For God's forsaken the buffalo range and the damned old buffalo. 

Bugeye Jim
If I get up and let you in,
I lose my house and my home again;
If I get up and try to come,
I get sent back to the land I’m from.The cloud came low and the rain did pour;
I hear your hand touch on my door;
The rain has quit and the light of the moon
Shows you standing in my room.:
Bugeye Jim, I can’t come;
I can twist and turn, but I can’t come,
I can ache and I can burn, but I can’t come.
I work up this morning with an aching brain;
Hear you tap on my window pane.I look at your with a heavy head;
I hear you sit down on my bed;
The storm gets worse and my heart feels bare;
I feel your fingers comb my hair.The mud it runs and the waters rise;
I feel your hotkiss on my eyes;
The rain it rained and the world did stir;
I sing to you my lovesick word. 

Cadillac Eight
How many hundred
Does it take
To grab me down
That Cadillac eight?Cadillac eight
You get straight
Cadillac eight
You get straight
Grab me down
My Cadillac eightIf your Buick
Fools with me
I will run you
In the seaIf your Oldsmobile
Gets smart
I will beat you
From the startIf you Pontiac
Gives me pain
I will suck
You down the drainIf your Chevy
Touches me
I will run you
Up a treeIf your Dodge
With me gets wise
I will pass you
In the skiesIf your Ford
Gives me a run
I’ll pass you
Like the rising sunIf your Hudson
Messes around
I will beat you
Right on down 

California Stars
I’d like to rest my heavy head tonight
On a bed of California stars
I’d like to lay my weary bones tonight
On a bed of California stars
I’d love to feel your hand touching mine
And tell me why I must keep working on
Yes, I’d give my life to lay my head tonight
On a bed of California starsI’d like to dream my troubles all away
On a bed of California stars
Jump up from my starbed and make another day
Underneath my California stars
They hang like grapes on vines that shine
And warm the lovers glass like friendly wine
So, I’d give this world just to dream a dream with you
On our bed of California stars 

Californy Gold
 

Car, Car Song (Riding In My Car)
Brrrm brm brm brm brm brm brm, brrrm b’ brrrm,
Brrrm brm brm brm brm brm brrrm b’ brrrm,
Brrrm brm brm brm brm brm brrrm b’ brrrm.
Brrrm brm brm brm brm brm brrrm.Take me riding in the car, car;
Take me riding in the car, car;
Take you riding in the car, car;
I'll take you riding in my car.Click clack, open up the door, girls;
Click clack, open up the door, boys;
Front door, back door, clickety clack,
Take you riding in my car.Climb, climb, rattle on the front seat;
Spree I spraddle on the backseat;
Turn my key, step on my starter,
Take you riding in my car.Engine it goes boom, boom;
Engine it goes boom, boom;
Front seat, backseat, boys and girls,
Take you riding in my car.Trees and the houses walk along;
Trees and the houses walk along;
Truck and a car and a garbage can,
Take you riding in my car.Ships and the little boats chug along;
Ships and the little boats chug along;
Boom buhbuh boom boom boom buh boom,
Take you riding in my car.I'm a gonna send you home again;
I'm a gonna send you home again;
Boom, boom, buhbuh boom, rolling home,
Take you riding in my car.I'm a gonna let You blow the horn;
I'm a gonna let you blow the horn;
A oorah, a oorah, a oogah, oogah,
I'll take you riding in my car. 

Careless Reckless Love
I was good to you, and lovin’ all the time,
I was good to you, and lovin’ all the time,
I was good to you, and lovin’ all the time,
Still you never would be mineYou took away, my silver and gold,
You took away, my silver and gold,
You took away, my silver and gold,
But you sure can’t take away my soul:
It’s love, careless, reckless love
It’s love, careless, reckless love
It’s love, careless, reckless love
There’s nothing in this world that I won’t do.My heart is sad and muddy all the time.
My heart is sad and muddy all the time.
My heart is muddy, got trouble rising high,
The one I love, just won’t be mine.I stand here alone, in my back door,
I stand alone, in my back door,
I stand alone, in my back door,
And that’s something I never did before. 

Chain of Broken Hearts
This world looks like a chain
Of heavy broken hearts . . .
It chains my brothers and sisters all apart
Link after link
It clatters thru my land
This long heavy chain of broken hearts.Selfish pride is one link in this chain
And you better drive it out of your heart –
Brother – sister when you do it’s then that you’ll get loose
From this long heavy chain of broken hearts.
It’s this long heavy chain of broken hearts
It’s this long heavy chain of broken hearts
You gotta find your union before you can get free
From this long heavy chain of broken hearts.Fear is a link in this chain
Of sorrow and trouble and pain . . .
Drive out your fear and you will break apart
This long heavy chain of broken hearts.Jealousy in a link of the worst
A worry, a blister and a curse . . .
Join our union band and bring with your hands
This long heavy chain of broken hearts.

It’s when you are free from this chain
Love will come and filled you up again
Show your friends and neighbors how to break away
From this long heavy chain of broken hearts. 

Changing World
Why you afraid of life
Pack my heart and soul and mind
Would love to dwell?
Why am I afraid to say what I feel and need?
Why am I afraid to live a life I’d love?Change the pen and change the ink
Change the way you talk and think
Change the tubes and change the tires
Change the things your heart desires
Change your makeup change your curl
Change the ways of this changing world
Change the ways of this changing worldAfraid to live, live, live!
Afraid to love, love, love!
Afraid to walk, walk, walk!
Afraid to talk, talk, talk!
I’m ‘fraid to live, yes, friend
I’m afraid to dieChange the pen and change the ink
Change the way you talk and think
Change the tubes and change the tires
Change the things your heart desires
Change your makeup change your curl
Change the ways of this changing world
Change the ways of this changing world 

Cheap Mike
 

Chisholm Trail
Come along boys and listen to my tale
Tell you of my trouble on the old Chisholm Trail
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayWell, I started up the trail October twenty-third
Started up the trail with a 2-U herd
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayTen dollar horse and a forty dollar saddle
I'm going cut them Texas cattle
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayWoke up one morning on the old Chisholm Trail
My rope in my hand and a cow by the tail
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayCloudy in the west, looking like rain
My danged old slicker's in the wagon again
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayJumped in the saddle and I grabbed that horn
The best blamed cowboy ever was born
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayDon't give a damn if I never do stop
Ride just as long as an eight day flop
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayFoot in the stirrup and a hand on the horn
The best danged cowboy ever was born
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayStray in the herd and the boss said, "Kill it,"
Hit him in the rump with the handle of a skillet
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayBacon and beans most every day
Soon to be eating that prairie hay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayBest dang horse, going on a run
Quickest shooting cowboy ever pulled a gun
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayWell, I went to the wagon to get my roll
Had had me figured nine dollars in the hole
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayWell, sell my outfit quick as I can
And I won't punch cattle for no damn man
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayGoing to town to draw my money
Going to town to see my honey
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayKnees in the saddle and a seat in the sky
Quit my boss and say goodbye
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yay 

Chorine My Sheba Queen
Chorine! Chorine! Chorine!
Your eyes are like my sky
Wherever you go I want you to know
Its there my love will fly!I miss my sweet Chorine
Most everywhere I go,
And I tell you know cause I want you to know
She’s the best I ever sawChorine your form’s divine,
Chorine your heart so true;
If you are lookin’ for a heart of gold,
Chorine will do, do, do.My lovely sweet Chorine,
I love you best of all;
In early spring when Lovebirds sing
Or in the dreary fall!Chorine! Chorine! Chorine!
Has anybody seen Chorine
She took off running like a new machine
Chorine my Sheba Queen 

Christ for President
Let's have Christ our President
Let us have him for our king
Cast your vote for the Carpenter
That you call the NazareneThe only way we can ever beat
These crooked politician men
Is to run the money changers out of the temple
Put the Carpenter inO It's Jesus Christ our President
God above our king
With a job and a pension for young and old
We will make hallelujah ringEvery year we waste enough
To feed the ones who starve
We build our civilization up
And we shoot it down with warsBut with the Carpenter on the seat
Way up in the Capital town
The USA would be on the way
Prosperity Bound! 

Circle of Truth
Gang around me you cowpunks, and hear my sad wall
'Bout that battle had on the Triple Six Trail;
I got sick of the blabber of my dirty mouth boss.
From his Triple Six cow camp I fann'd my good hoss.I rode several days and I camped several nights,
My tailbone got blistered and the toeflies did bite!
I splashed a sand river both shivery and cold,
I swum for an hour, then I pulled on my duds.As I lay like a lizard to bake in that sun,
A young Indian girl from her corn field she run;
She rolled and she cried till I thought she might die,
So I pulled out my shirt tall and dried both her eyes.She then took her finger and wrote in the sand:
My father must wed me to some older man!
I drew her my circle of truth on the ground.
Told her: You can ride with me to the place that I'm bound.That night 'round our firehole she told me again:
He's a rich, mighty landlord and he owns all these lands!
That night 'round our firehole his tracker did come,
And we dug us a low ditch to hide from their guns.I had just one pistol, all rusty and old,
I fired at their gunsparks that flashed in the dark.
She pulled an old fourshot from under her dress
And she fired with both fingers and mostly by guess.His tracker thugs run when they seen we had guns
Back to that old moneybag, sayin' they'd blowed us down.
We rigged up my pony and the river did swim,
I felt her warm body while she laughed at him.We chunked up a fire on this opposite shore
As I held her and warmed her and I kissed her some more.
His gooners will draw pay for shooting us down!
And here I am going to this place that you're bound!I drew her my circle of truth on the ground,
Baby, this is the spot where I'm sure that I'm bound.
Yes, she drew her cross on my ring that went 'round:
I'm glad that we've come to the spot where we're bound! 

Cleano
Mama Oh Mama come wash my face.
Wash my face come wash my face,
Mama oh Mama come wash my face,
And make me nice and cleano.Daddy, oh Daddy, come fix my shoe,
Fix my shoe, come fix my shoe.
Daddy, oh Daddy come fix my shoe,
And polish it nice and cleano.Sister, oh Sister, come bathe my back,
Bathe my back, come bathe my back
Sister, oh Sister, come bathe my back,
And make it nice and cleano.Cleano clean, yes, cleano clean,
Cleano clean, yes cleano clean.
Scrubbity scrubbity and ruby-dub dubbity;
And make me nice and cleano.Brother, oh Brother, come wash my hair,
Wash my hair, come wash my hair.
Brother, oh Brother, come wash my hair.
And make it nice and cleano.Granny, oh Granny, come wash my feet,
Wash my feet, come wash my feet.
Granny, oh Granny, come wash my feet,
And make them nice and cleano.Sweetie, oh Sweetie, come smell-a me now,
Smell-a me now, come smell-a me now.
Sweetie, oh Sweetie, come smell-a me now,
Don't I smell nice and cleano? 

Cocaine Blues
It was late last night I made my rounds
I met my woman and I blowed her down
I went on home and I went to bed
I laid my pistol up under my headEarly next morning by the rising sun
I woke up and I started to run
I made a run, but I run too slow
A man overtook me down in JerichoI was standing on the corner reading my daddy's will
Along come a man, they called him Bad Texas Bill
He said "Captain, is your name Lee Brown?
I believe that you're the rascal blowed your woman down."I said "Yes sir, Captain, my name is Lee.
And if you've got any blues, boy, sing 'em to me."
"Well I guess, Lee, that you know the best.
You'd better come go with me, the judge'll tell you the rest."When I was arrested, I was dressed in black
They put me on a train and they brung me back
Jury found me guilty in the first degree
And they laid me down in the penitentiaryYes, the judge found me guilty and the jury too
Cried, "Lord in heaven, have some mercy on me!"
I'll be here for the rest of my life
All I done was kill my wife 

Columbia's Waters
"Good Morning, Mister Sunshine!"
"Good morning, Man!" I'm just a stranger, travelin' 'cross y'r land;
Do y' need a good workhand
On your big Grand Coulee dam?I'd like to settle down but I'm forced to ramble all o' my time,
I'd like to settle down with this wife and kids of mine;
But a place to settle down my family
Is a pretty hard place to find!I like to work. I work every time I can!
I got a callous in the palms of both o' my hands!
This ramblin' around from town to town
Goes hard on a family man!I said I like to work, I don't like to beg and steal!
The harder I'm a workin' the better it makes me feel!
But my wife and kid get juberous
Everytime they miss a meal!I'm a hardrock man, I was born in a hardrock place!
Back in my home place I was a man of high degree!
Nobody with a triphammer
Can knock as big a hole as me.This Columbia River
Rolls right down this line;
Columbia's waters taste like sparklin' wine;
Dustbowl waters taste like picklin' brine.The money that I draw from workin' at your Coullee dam;
My wife will meet me at the kitchen door stretchin' out her hand;
She'll make a little down payment
On our forty acre tract of land.We'll work along this river, I'll sing from sun to sun;
I'll walk along this grass and listen to the factory hum;
Look what I've done gone and done.Take some sow from off this mountain, mix it with some wind and rain!
Take some metal from yer mountain, melt it up again;
Stir it up with powers from Coullee's dam,
And you've got a big sabre jet plane.Take some water from this valley, mix it up with snow;
Take my ramblin' family rollin' down this road;
Mix it up with sunshine
And, man, you ought to see the green things grow! 

Come See
Come see my little baby,
Come see my little baby,
Come see my little angel,
Come see!Come see my little baby,
Come see my little baby,
Come see my pretty baby,
Come see!Mama's got a baby,
Goes' round around, around-O
If you don't believe me, come see;
Come see my mama's baby
Go round, around, around-O
If you don't believe me, come see.My daddy's got a penny
Goes jingle, jangle, jingle,
Well if you don't believe me, come see;
Come see my daddy's penny
Go jingle, jangle, jingle,
Well if you don't believe me, come see.My brother's got a donkey
Goes whooo, whooo, whooey,
If you don't believe me, come see;
Come see my brother's donkey
Go whooo, whooo whooey,
If you don't believe me, come see.My sister's got a kitten
Goes meoow, meoow de purrdy,
If you don't believe me, come see;
Come see my sister's kitten
Go meow, meow de purrdy,
If you don't believe me, come see. 

Come When I Call You
Oh, will you come when I call you?
I’ll come when you call me.
I’ll call you at half-past one!
One’s for the pretty little baby that's
born, born, born and gone away.Oh, will you come when I call you?
I’ll come when you call me.
I’ll call you at half-past two.
Two's for the love of me and you.
One's for the pretty little baby
that’s born, born, born and gone away.Oh, will you come when I call you?
I’ll come when you call me.
I’ll call you at half-past three.
Three’s for these warships at sea.
Two's for the love of me and you.
One's for the pretty little baby
that’s born, born, born and gone away.Will you come when I call you?
I’ll come when you call me.
I’ll call you at half-past four.
Four's for the guns of this war.
Three’s for these warships at sea.
Two's for the love of me and you.
One's for the pretty little baby
that’s born, born, born and gone away.Oh, will you come when I call you?
I’ll come when you call me.
I’ll call you at half-past five.
Five's for these warplanes that fly.
Four's for the guns of this war.
Three’s for these warships at sea.
Two's for the love of me and you.
One's for the pretty little baby
that’s born, born, born and gone away.Oh, will you come when I call you?
I’ll come when you call me.
I’ll call you at half-past six.
Six for the cities all wrecked.
Five's for these warplanes that fly.
Four's for the guns of this war.
Three’s for these warships at sea.
Two's for the love of me and you.
One's for the pretty little baby
that’s born, born, born and gone away.Oh, will you come when I call you?
I’ll come when you call me.
I’ll call you at half-past seven.
Seven for continents blowed up.
Six for the cities all wrecked.
Five's for these warplanes that fly.
Four's for the guns of this war.
Three’s for these warships at sea.
Two's for the love of me an you.
One's for the pretty little baby
that’s born, born, born and gone away.Oh, will you come when I call you?
I’ll come when you call me.
I’ll call you at half-past eight.
Eight for my eight billion graves.
Seven for continents blowed up.
Six for the cities all wrecked.
Five's for these warplanes that fly.
Four's for the guns of this war.
Three’s for these warships at sea.
Two's for the love of me and you.
One's for the pretty little baby
that’s born, born, born and gone away.Oh, will you come when I call you?
I’ll come when you call me.
I'll call you at half-past nine.
Nine for the crippled and blind.
Eight for my eight billion graves.
Seven for continents blowed up.
Six for the cities all wrecked.
Five for these warplanes that fly.
Four for the guns of this war.
Three’s for these warships at sea.
Two's for the love of me and you.
One's for the pretty little baby
that’s born, born, born and gone away.Oh, will you come when I call you?
I’ll come when you call me.
I’ll call you half-past ten.
Ten for the atom bomb loose again.
Nine for the crippled and blind.
Eight for my eight billion graves.
Seven for continents blowed up.
Six for the cities all wrecked.
Five's for these warplanes that fly.
Four's for the guns of this war.
Three’s for these warships at sea.
Two's for the love of me and you.
One's for the pretty little baby
that’s born, born, born and gone away. 

Condorbird
Condorbird my wonderbird
Spread out your wings and sail for me
Condorbird my wonderbird
Spread out your big wings fly for me.Condorbird my wanderin' bird
Wing it up and outta sight for me
Condorbird my wanderin' bird
Wing it up and outta sight for me.Condorbird my brotherbird
Hatch me out some freedom on my place here
Condorbird my sisterbird
Fly'n hatch a little sprig of freedom for me.Condorbird my motherbird
Hatch out some freedom lands for me
Condorbird my fatherbird
Fly hatch some big big freedom lands for me.Condorbird my loverbird
Fly tell my lover come fight for me
Condorbird my loverbird
Fly tell my lover come here and fight for me. 

Curly Headed Baby
I have loved her since I met her
She is all the world to me
She's my curly headed baby
Comes from sunny Tennessee.I'm a-gonna tell you 'bout these women
I'm a-gonna tell you what they do
Hang their heads up on your shoulder
Flirt around with another tooI'd rather be in some dark holler
Where the sun refuses to shine
Than to see her with another
When you promised to be mineI was happy when I kissed her
And she gave her love to me
She's the prettiest little baby
That ever fell in love with meShe's my curly headed baby
And I hope someday to be
Walking by her side forever
Down in sunny Tennessee. 

Dance A Little Longer
Eats an’ drinks an’ smokes are gone,
Ice on th’steps an’ you cain’t git home;
Hang y’r things on th’ peg in th’ corner;
Giggle an’ wiggle an’ dance a little longer.Dance aroun’, dance a little longer,
Just gotta hold you just a little longer;
Bing an’ talk, joke a little longer;
Just gotta hold you justa little longer.Rained three days an’ th’ barditch full;
I cain’t git home, it’sa muddy old pull;
I live on toppa that bad hill yonder
That’s why I gotta dance a little longer.Tonight’s th’ night that th’ muddy flood come,
Took my house and it tooken my barn;
Drowned my goose an’ drowned my gander,
That’s why I gotta dance a little longer.

Lightnin’ sat my place onne fire
Thunder shook down my floorin’ boards;
Wild wind come along end it stole my lumber;
That’s why I gotta dance a little longer.I tied my ship to a downtock dock
Tidal wave run in an’ give it a knock;
It wrecked my boat an’ shivvered my timbers;
That’s why I gotta dance a little longer.

I tied my bicycle up to a post
An’ it got stole by a graveyard ghost;
He wont bring it back till you kiss my stronger;
That’s why I gotta dance a little longer.I hadda date tonight witha gal down th’ road,
Told ‘er I’d stop off an’ dump my load;
She’s pretty pretty, but you’re lots perttyooee;
That’s why I gotta dance a little longer. 

Dance Around
Dance a-round and a-round and a-round
and a-round and a-round and a-round and a-round
Dance a-round and a-round and a-round
and a-round and a-round and a-round and a-roundHold up your hands
Your hands, your hands,
Hold up your hands, your hands.
Hold up your hands
Your hands, your hands,
Hold up your hands, your hands.Walk on your toes
Your toes, your toes,
Walk on your toes, your toes,
Walk on your toes
Your toes, your toes,
Walk on your toes, your toes.Now march and march
And march and march
And march and march and march
Now march and march
And march and march
And march and march and march.Now take big steps
Big steps, big steps,
Now take big steps, big steps.
Hold up your hands
And take big steps, big steps. 

Dance Around My Atom Fire
Bring all my history pages
Bring all my wits and sages
Back down from the glacial ages
Dance around my atom fireBring all my blood relations
Bring all my worried nations
Back down through my civilizations
Dance around my atom fire:
Dance around my atom fire
Dance around my atom fire
Dance around my atom fire
Dance around my atom fireI'll bring my sons and daughters
I'll bring my heavy waters
Titanium Uranium
Dance around my atom fireBring all my lads and lasses
Nitro and blister gasses
Brotherhood or a world of ashes
Dance around my atom fireThe brightest of eyes and faces
Down out of my history places
All of my humnaly races
Dance around my atom fireWarfare is not the settlement
Bloodshed is not the element
Shake hands and work together
Dance around my atom fire 

Danville Girl
I went down to the railroad yard, Watch the train come by
Knew that train would roll that day But I did not know what time.I did not know what time, boys, did not know what time,
Knew the train would roll that day but I did not know what time.
Good morning, Mister railroad man, what time does your train roll by?Nine sixteen and two forty four, twenty five minutes ‘til five.
At nine sixteen, two forty four, twenty five minutes ‘til five.
Thank you, Mister railroad man, I wanna watch your train roll by.Standing on the platform, smoking a big cigar,
Waitin' for some old freight train that carries an empty car.I rode her down to Danville town, got stuck on a Danville girl,
Bet your life she was a pearl, she wore that Danville curl.She wore her hat on the back of her head like high tone people all do,
Very next train come down that track, I bid that gal adieu.I bid that gal adieu, poor boys, I bid that gal adieu,
The very next train come down that track, I bid that gal adieu. 

Dead or Alive
Well, the new sher'ff wrote me a letter,
Yes, the new sher'ff wrote me a letter:
Come up and see me dead or alive,
Come up and see me dead or alive.
Dead or alive it's a hard road; it's a hard road dead or alive.Well, he even sent me my picture:
Yes, he even sent me my picture;
How do I look, boys, dead or alive?
How do I look, boys, dead or alive?
Dead or alive it's a hard road; it's a hard road dead or alive.

Well, he said he would pay expenses:
Yes, he said he would pay expenses;
Dead or alive, no thank!
New sheriff, I'm a poor boy
Dead or alive it's a hard road; it's a hard road dead or alive.

Well, he said he would feed and clothe me;
Yes, mhe said he would feed and clothe me;
Dead or alive, no thanks!
New sheriff, I'm a poor boy
Dead or alive it's a hard road; it's a hard road dead or alive.

Well, I'm sorry I can't come, sheriff;
Yes, I'm sorry but I can't come, sheriff;
Dead or alive, no thanks!
New sheriff, I'm a poor boy
Dead or alive it's a hard road; it's a hard road dead or alive.

I don't like your hard-rock hotel;
I don't like your hard-rock hotel;
Dead or alive, new sheriff
No thanks, I'm a poor boy
Dead or alive it's a hard road; it's a hard road dead or alive.

I gotta go down and see my little sweet thing;
Gonna go down and see my little sweet thing;
Dead or alive, yes, Lord!
No thanks, new sheriff.
Dead or alive it's a hard road; it's a hard road dead or alive. 

Dear Mrs. Roosevelt
Dear Mrs. Roosevelt, don't hang your head and cry;
His mortal clay is laid away, but his good work fills the sky;
This world was lucky to see him born.He's born in a money family on that Hudson's rocky shore;
Outrun every kid a-growin' up 'round Hyde Park just for fun;
This world was lucky to see him born.He went away to grade school and wrote back to his folks;
He drew such funny pictures and always pulling a joke;
This world was lucky to see him born.He went on up towards Harvard, he read his books of law;
He loved his trees and horses, loved everything he saw;
This world was lucky to see him born.He got struck down by fever and it settled in his leg;
He loved the folks that wished him well as everybody did;
This world was lucky to see him born.He took his office on a crippled leg, he said to one and all:
"You money changin' racket boys have sure 'nuff got to fall;"
This world was lucky to see him born,In senate walls and congress halls he used his gift of tongue
To get you thieves and liars told and put you on the run;
This world was lucky to see him born,I voted for him for lots o' jobs, I'd vote his name again;
He tried to find an honest job for every idle man;
This world was lucky to see him born,He helped to build my union hall, he learned me how to talk;
I could see he was a cripple but he learned my soul to walk;
This world was lucky to see him born.You Nazis and you fascists tried to boss this world by hate;
He fought my war the union way and the hate gang all got beat;
This world was lucky to see him born.I sent him 'cross that ocean to Yalta and to Tehran;
He didn't like Churchill very much and told him man to man;
This world was lucky to see him born.He said he didn't like DeGaulle, nor no Chiang Kai Shek;
Shook hands with Joseph Stalin, says: "There's a man I like!"
This world was lucky to see him born.I was torpedoed on my merchant ship the day he took command;
He was hated by my captain, but loved by all ships hands;
This world was lucky to see him born.I was a Gl in my army camp that day he passed away,
And over my shoulder talkin' I could hear some soldier say:
"This world was lucky to see him born."I guess this world was lucky just to see him born;
I know this world was lucky just to see him born;
This world was lucky to see him born. 

Debt I Owe, The
Every day, several times a day, a thought comes over me.
I owe more debts than I ever can pay back more money than I'll ever see.I walk around the streets of Coney Island . I look through the windows of every store. I peep through the hallways and the doorways and I think of this debt I owe.I feel like a piece of crushed wreckage, some smashed car in a salvage yard, a vision of an old newspaper blown across an old navy yard, a curbstone chipped and beaten, a piece of gum stuck to a shoe, an empty pack of used matches, an empty version of you.People stroll and they saunter like papercups thrown in the trash. They're crawling all over the sidewalks, their wallets stuck in their pants. And it comes over me like a mist rising, a fog falling over a ship. The bell is ringing out danger, but it's too late to cancel this trip.I see the mist rising before me, my hand reappears by my face. By my waist a cold empty pocket, on my wrist the tears from your face. And I think of what I thought this cold morning, it's the same thing I'm thinking at three. I owe more than I can ever pay back, more than I'll ever see.I think of what I thought this cold morning, I think of what I'm thinking at three. At ten and at midnight the same damn thing, I wish this debt was about money. 

Deportee (Plane Wreck at Los Gatos)
The crops are all in and the peaches are rott'ning,
The oranges piled in their creosote dumps;
They're flying 'em back to the Mexican border
To pay all their money to wade back againGoodbye to my Juan, goodbye, Rosalita,
Adios mis amigos, Jesus y Maria;
You won't have your names when you ride the big airplane,
All they will call you will be "deportees"My father's own father, he waded that river,
They took all the money he made in his life;
My brothers and sisters come working the fruit trees,
And they rode the truck till they took down and died.Some of us are illegal, and some are not wanted,
Our work contract's out and we have to move on;
Six hundred miles to that Mexican border,
They chase us like outlaws, like rustlers, like thieves.We died in your hills, we died in your deserts,
We died in your valleys and died on your plains.
We died 'neath your trees and we died in your bushes,
Both sides of the river, we died just the same.The sky plane caught fire over Los Gatos Canyon,
A fireball of lightning, and shook all our hills,
Who are all these friends, all scattered like dry leaves?
The radio says, "They are just deportees"Is this the best way we can grow our big orchards?
Is this the best way we can grow our good fruit?
To fall like dry leaves to rot on my topsoil
And be called by no name except "deportees"? 

Dirty Overhalls
 

Dirty Overhauls
Well, the guns of war have roared
And the bombs and shells have fallen
The war clouds they rumbled as they rolled.
I was a soldier in the fight 
And we fought till we won;
My uniform's my dirty overalls.

This piece of land that I stand on
Is my battlefield and home;
My plow and my hoe is my gun.
Clothes don't make no difference at all
We are workers and fighters all;
My uniform's my dirty overalls.

Well, I'll give you my sweat 
I'll give you my blood
And I'll give you your bread and your wine.
Before I'd be any man's slave,
I would rot down in my grave.
And you can lay me down in my dirty overalls.

Well, we settled here to stay
and I'll stick here all my days;
I'll keep marchin' in my dirty overalls.  

Do Re Mi
Lots of folks back East, they say, is leavin' home every day,
Beatin' the hot old dusty way to the California line.
'Cross the desert sands they roll, gettin' out of that old dust bowl,
They think they're goin' to a sugar bowl, but here's what they find
Now, the police at the port of entry say,
"You're number fourteen thousand for today."Oh, if you ain't got the do re mi, folks, you ain't got the do re mi,
Why, you better go back to beautiful Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Georgia, Tennessee.
California is a garden of Eden, a paradise to live in or see;
But believe it or not, you won't find it so hot
If you ain't got the do re mi.You want to buy you a home or a farm, that can't deal nobody harm,
Or take your vacation by the mountains or sea.
Don't swap your old cow for a car, you better stay right where you are,
Better take this little tip from me.
'Cause I look through the want ads every day
But the headlines on the papers always say:If you ain't got the do re mi, boys, you ain't got the do re mi,
Why, you better go back to beautiful Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Georgia, Tennessee.
California is a garden of Eden, a paradise to live in or see;
But believe it or not, you won't find it so hot
If you ain't got the do re mi. 

Dollar Down
Friend of mine bought an automobile,
At a dollar down and a dollar a week.
Every time he turned the wheel,
It was a dollar down and a dollar a week.

He went riding down the road,
And kissed this gal upon her cheek.
Speed cop took him to the judge,
He got a dollar down and a dollar a week.

Sixty days he laid in jail,
At a dollar down and a dollar a week.
Another man was a-lovin' his gal,
At a dollar down and a dollar a week.

When he got out he shot the man,
And he laid him in the graveyard six foot deep.
And when he bought the graveyard spot,
It was a dollar down and a dollar a week. 

Don't Kill My Baby and My Son
As I walked down that old dark town
In the town where I was born,
I heard the saddest lonesome moan
I ever heard before.My hair it trembled at the roots
Cold chills run down my spine,
As I drew near that jail house
I heard this deathly cry:O, don't kill my baby and my son,
O , don't kill my baby and my son.
You can stretch my neck on that old river bridge,
But don't kill my baby and my son.Now, I've heard the cries of a panther,
Now, I've heard the coyotes yell,
But that long, lonesome cry shook the whole wide world
And it come from the cell of the jail.Yes, I’ve heard the screech owls screeching,
And the hoot owls that hoot in the night,
But the graveyard itself is happy compared
To the voice in that jailhouse that night.Then I saw a picture on a postcard
It showed the Canadian River Bridge,
Three bodies hanging to swing in the wind,
A mother and two sons they'd lynched.There's a wild wind blows down the river,
There's a wild wind blows through the trees,
There's a wild wind that blows 'round this wide wide world,
And here's what the wild winds say:O, don't kill my baby and my son,
O, don't kill my baby and my son.
You can stretch my neck on that old river bridge,
But don't kill my baby and my son. 

Don't You Marry
Baby, don’t you marry no farming man
Put a rake and a shovel right in your hand
Don’t you marry no railroad man
When you want him he won’t be on hand.So don’t go marrying no business man
Got too much monkey business on his hands
Don’t go marry no jellybean man
Got too many women on his hands.:
Just take me back
Baby won’t you take me back
I won’t do one little thing
That you don’t like.O’ don’t you marry no banker man
He’ll take all your money from your hand
No, don’t you marry no finance man
He’ll slap a big mortgage right in your hand.Don’t you marry no travelin’ man
Always bummin’ off round in foreign lands
Don’t you marry no singer man
He’s the brokest feller in the band.Don’t marry no soldier nor sailer man
Always sailing off and drinking in a distant land
Don’t marry yourself no mariner man
Put the invasion barge right in your hands 

Don't You Push Me Down
Well you can play with me
And you can hold my hand.
We can skip together
Down to the Pretzel man
You can wear my mommy's shoes
Put on my daddy's hat
You can even laugh at me
But don't you push me down.Don't you push me, push me, push me,
Don't you push me down,
Don't you push me, push me, push me,
Don't you push me down.You can play with me.
We can play all day.
You can use my dishes
If you'll put them away.
You can feed me apples
And oranges and plums.
You can even wash my face,
But don't you push me down.You can play with me.
We can build a house,
You can take my ball
And bounce it all around.
You can take my skates
And ride them all around.
You can even get mad at me,
But don't you push me down. 

Dopefiend Robber
I’m just a dopefiend robber you read and hear about
I’ve kick a million joints I to grab my swag and go
I’ve pushed a million drugstores with my pistol in my hand
I’m just a dopefiend robber and dope robbing is my game.I doubled my haul in old St. Paul and I spun to New Orleans
Met a Cajun girl that loved stuff while I was in the green.
I showed her how to hold my gat and go break my drugstore
After I showed her a dozen or so she broke ‘em bettern I couldDopefiend robber
Dopefiend robber
Dopefiend robber
Dopefiend robberSeen my town of Reno we grabbed our biggest haul
Some heads around the town said you’re in my territore
Just fork me over your take friend and walk away in peace
My girl put nine holes in him before he spoke his piece.She runoff down blind alley where his whoremob shot her down
I counted thirty-two blasts they fired to keep her on that ground
I run and jumped me a fast boxcar down Reno’s hill
My clothes pokedfull of good hot money from heroin till and killDopefiend robber
Dopefiend robber
Dopefiend robber
Dopefiend robberI buy your bestole finest wine, I buy it by the barrel.
I pour it down my prettiest whores, my street hustling girls
I buy my greenystamp whisky, I buy it by the case
I get myself drunk and have a little fuckin raceOne seventeen year old bitch tells me, now you’ve knocked me up
You’ll havta fork me a thousand to pay my knocker doc.
Here take this gun and come with me tonight,
I’ll teach ya how to rob and you can payoff your doc.Dopefiend robber
Dopefiend robber
Dopefiend robber
Dopefiend robberI kicked my bell and run like hell and left her here alone
My trolyboys drilled her sixteen holes because she had my gun
She laid with a hundred and sixty men and told me such lies
I celebrated with four more whores the night I heard she died.I’m just your dopefiend robber you read and hear about
I’ve kicked a million joints in to grab my swag and drag
My coffeepot is whistling me, I’d better be hittin my trail
My bluecoat boys are here to haul my ashes off ta jail.Dopefiend robber
Dopefiend robber
Dopefiend robber
Dopefiend robber 

Dry Bed
Hey, lookit my dry bed! Come feel my dry bed!
My bed's all dry, dry, I'm a big boy!
Look, lookit my dry bed! Dry, dry, my dry bed!
My bed's all dry, dry, I'm a big boy!Th' rain didn't rain an' wet my bed, Momsey, come see
River didn't run an' wet my bed, Dadsey, hey, look
Dry, dry bed and a heave and a ho
Take me to the movie show! I am a big boy now!Pussycat didn't wet my bed last night, Sister, come feel
Puppydog didn't make my beddybed wet, Brother, take a peek
Dry, dry bed and a yippy yippy yi
Take me down to the pony ride! I am a big boy now! 

Dust Bowl Blues
I just blowed in, and I got them dust bowl blues,
I just blowed in, and I got them dust bowl blues,
I just blowed in, and I'll blow back out again.I guess you've heard about ev'ry kind of blues,
I guess you've heard about ev'ry kind of blues,
But when the dust gets high, you can't even see the sky.I've seen the dust so black that I couldn't see a thing,
I've seen the dust so black that I couldn't see a thing,
And the wind so cold, boy, it nearly cut your water off.I seen the wind so high that it blowed my fences down,
I've seen the wind so high that it blowed my fences down,
Buried my tractor six feet underground.Well, it turned my farm into a pile of sand,
Yes, it turned my farm into a pile of sand,
I had to hit that road with a bottle in my hand.I spent ten years down in that old dust bowl,
I spent ten years down in that old dust bowl,
When you get that dust pneumony, boy, it's time to go.I had a gal, and she was young and sweet,
I had a gal, and she was young and sweet,
But a dust storm buried her sixteen hundred feet.She was a good gal, long, tall and stout,
Yes, she was a good gal, long, tall and stout,
I had to get a steam shovel just to dig my darlin' out.These dusty blues are the dustiest ones I know,
These dusty blues are the dustiest ones I know,
Buried head over heels in the black old dust,
I had to pack up and go.
An' I just blowed in, an' I'll soon blow out again. 

Dust Bowl Refugee
I'm a dust bowl refugee,
Just a dust bowl refugee,
From that dust bowl to the peach bowl,
Now that peach fuzz is a-killin' me.'Cross the mountains to the sea,
Come the wife and kids and me.
It's a hot old dusty highway
For a dust bowl refugee.Hard, it's always been that way,
Here today and on our way
Down that mountain, 'cross the desert,
Just a dust bowl refugee.We are ramblers, so they say,
We are only here today,
Then we travel with the seasons,
We're the dust bowl refugees.From the south land and the drought land,
Come the wife and kids and me,
And this old world is a hard world
For a dust bowl refugee.Yes, we ramble and we roam
And the highway that's our home,
It's a never-ending highway
For a dust bowl refugee.Yes, we wander and we work
In your crops and in your fruit,
Like the whirlwinds on the desert
That's the dust bowl refugees.I'm a dust bowl refugee,
I'm a dust bowl refugee,
And I wonder will I always
Be a dust bowl refugee? 

Dust Can't Kill Me
That old dust storm killed my baby,
But it can't kill me, Lord
And it can't kill me.That old dust storm killed my family,
But it can't kill me, Lord
And it can't kill me.That old landlord got my homestead,
But he can't get me, Lord,
And he can't get me.That old dry spell killed my crop, boys,
But it can't kill me, Lord
And it can't kill me.That old tractor got my home, boys,
But it can't get me, Lord
And it can't get me.That old tractor run my house down,
But it can't get me down,
And it can't get me.That old pawn shop got my furniture,
But it can't get me, Lord,
And it can't get me.That old highway's got my relatives,
But it can't get me, Lord,
And it can't get me.That old dust might kill my wheat, boys,
But it can't kill me, Lord
And it can't kill me.I have weathered a-many a dust storm,
But it can't get me, boys,
And it can't kill me.That old dust storm, well, it blowed my barn down,
But it can't blow me down,
And it can't blow me down.That old wind might blow this world down,
But it can't blow me down,
It can't kill me.That old dust storm's killed my baby,
But it can't kill me, Lord
And it can't kill me. 

Dust Pneumonia Blues
I got that dust pneumony, pneumony in my lung,
I got the dust pneumony, pneumony in my lung,
An' I'm a-gonna sing this dust pneumony song.I went to the doctor, and the doctor, said, "My son,"
I went to the doctor, and the doctor, said, "My son,
You got that dust pneumony an' you ain't got long, not long."Now there ought to be some yodelin' in this song;
Yeah, there ought to be some yodelin' in this song;
But I can't yodel for the rattlin' in my lung.My good gal sings the dust pneumony blues,
My good gal sings the dust pneumony blues,
She loves me 'cause she's got the dust pneumony, too.It it wasn't for choppin' my hoe would turn to rust,
If it wasn't for choppin' my hoe would turn to rust,
I can't find a woman in this black ol' Texas dust.Down in Oklahoma, the wind blows mighty strong,
Down in Oklahoma, the wind blows mighty strong,
If you want to get a mama, just sing a California song.Down in Texas, my gal fainted in the rain,
Down in Texas, my gal fainted in the rain,
I throwed a bucket o' dirt in her face just to bring her back again. 

Dust Storm Disaster
On the 14th day of April of 1935,
There struck the worst of dust storms that ever filled the sky.
You could see that dust storm comin', the cloud looked deathlike black,
And through our mighty nation, it left a dreadful track.From Oklahoma City to the Arizona line,
Dakota and Nebraska to the lazy Rio Grande,
It fell across our city like a curtain of black rolled down,
We thought it was our judgement, we thought it was our doom.The radio reported, we listened with alarm,
The wild and windy actions of this great mysterious storm;
From Albuquerque and Clovis, and all New Mexico,
They said it was the blackest that ever they had saw.From old Dodge City, Kansas, the dust had rung their knell,
And a few more comrades sleeping on top of old Boot Hill.
From Denver, Colorado, they said it blew so strong,
They thought that they could hold out, but they didn't know how long.Our relatives were huddled into their oil boom shacks,
And the children they was cryin' as it whistled through the cracks.
And the family it was crowded into their little room,
They thought the world had ended, and they thought it was their doom.The storm took place at sundown, it lasted through the night,
When we looked out next morning, we saw a terrible sight.
We saw outside our window where wheat fields they had grown
Was now a rippling ocean of dust the wind had blown.It covered up our fences, it covered up our barns,
It covered up our tractors in this wild and dusty storm.
We loaded our jalopies and piled our families in,
We rattled down that highway to never come back again.

Dying Doctor, The
You are all connected with the practice of medicine
You promise you'll keep true I know
You will do your best to help these people
I close my eyes for I must go.
His youngest girl was Doctor Betty
With her face so pretty and her smile so sweet
She walked the coal towns of Force and Byrndale
She saw the sewage waters flowing down the street.She saw the children drink the cankered water
She saw the chickens fly up on the roof
She saw the waters overflow the sewers
And flood their gardens of victory.
She went to the big shots of the Shawmut Company
She did not beg and she did not plead
She stood flatfooted and pounded the table
Sewer pipes and bathrooms are what we need.My dady told me to fight to cure sickness
But I can't cure sickness with sewage all around
These germs kill people quicker than I can cure them
We need a foundation under every house.
We need a bathroom for every family
Yes, you can set there and blink your eyes
Three hundred miners are out behind me
We will clean this town or know the reason why.I quit my job as the family doctor
I nailed up my shingle and went on my own
I carried my pillbag and waded those waters
I set by a deathbed in many a home.
I saw you catch rainwater in rusty washtubs
I saw you come home dirty up out of your pits
Watched you ride with your coffin up to your graveyard
With not a nickel to pay your burying debt.On July the fifteenth from the hills around
Three hundred miners walked down through town
The state inspector was testing the water
While he was working you stood around.
One miner asked him to have a drink free
The inspector looked out toward our pits
He set his hat back on his head and says,
"I wouldn't drink a drop of that on a bet."I think of my daddy and brothers and sisters
When we stood around his dying bed
When I walk the streets of the company towns
I can hear every word my daddy said.
The Shawmut Company is caught in its own paws
The people not worth the money they cost
A hundred have died, three hundred not working
Thirty thousand tons of coal is lost*The recorded version of this song has not yet been released. 

Dying Miner, The
It happened an hour ago
Way down in this tunnel of coal
The gas caught a fire from somebody's lamp
And my buddies are choking in smoke.Dear daddy and mother, Goodbye,
Dear sister and brother, Goodbye,
My fingers are weak
And I cannot write
Goodbye Centralia, Goodbye.It looks like the end for me
And all of my partners I see
When that work whistle blows and we don't come home
Do all that you can to help mom.I can hear the moans and the groans
of more than a hundred good men
We're all writing letters to kids that we love
Please carry our notes to our wives.This smoke is choking me down, yes,
The fumes are blinding my eyes
I see Joe Ballantinni, Fred Gutzler & Joy,
Forgive me for things I've done wrong,
I love you lots more than you know
Just work and fight and fix up these mines
so fire can't kill daddies no more.Please name our new baby Joe
So he'll grow up like big Joe
And he'll make that old mining boss clean out your mines
So fires can't break out here no more. 

Ease My Revolutionary Mind
Night is here again, baby,
I'm stretched out on my bed
Seeing all kinds of crazy notions
Running through my head;I need a progressive woman;
I need an awfully liberal woman;
Ain't no reactionary baby
Can ease my revolutionary mind.One hand is on my pillow
One hand is on my head,
I see a million nightmares
Tearing around inside my head;I need a progressive woman
I need an awfully liberal woman
I need a social conscious woman
To ease my revolutionary mind.If I could only make you see, babe,
I ache and pain and bleed,
I know you'd come a runnin'
If you blistered both your feet.I need a progressive woman;
I need an awful liberal woman;
I need an open minded mama
To ease my revolutionary mind.If you could see me here, baby,
Broke out with salty sweat;
No matter where you go I know
You never could forgetI need a progressive woman;
I need a liberal thinking woman;
I need an open hearted mama
To ease my revolutionary mind.I ain't no lumpen proletariat,
And I ain't no petty bourgeoisie
But I'm gonna be a cold corpse
If you don't run here to meI need a progressive shipmate;
I need a liberous nature lover,
But no reactionary female
Can ease my revolutionary mind.If you're a republican or a democrat,
Or a white hood Ku Klux Klan,
No use to ring my doorbell
'Cause I'll never be your manI want a union working woman
I want a progressive liberous woman,
I want a nice progressive mama
To ease my revolutionary mind. 

East Texas Red
Down in the scrub oak timber of the Southeast Texas Gulf
There used to ride a brakeman and a brakeman double tough
He worked the town of Kilgore and Longview nine miles down
Us trav'lers called him East Texas Red the meanest bull around.I rode by night and by broad daylight in wind and snow and sun
I always seen little East Texas Red sporting his smooth running gun
The tale got switched down the stems and main and everybody said
The meanest man on the shiny rails was little East Texas Red.It was early in the morning and along towards nine or ten
A couple of boys on the hunt of a job stood in the blizzardy wind
Hungry and cold they knocked on the doors of the working folks around
For a piece of meat and a spud or two to boil a stew around.Red he come down the cinder dump and he flagged the number two
He kicked their bucket over a bush and he dumped out all their stew
A traveler said, Mister East Texas Red you better get everything fixed
'Cause you're gonna ride your little train just one year from today.Red he laughed as he clumb the bank and swung aside of a wheeler
The boys caught a tanker to Seminole and west to Amarillo
They struck them a job of oil field work and followed a pipe line down
It took them lots of places till the year had rolled around.On one cold and wintery day they hooked them a Gulf bound train
They shivered and shook with dough in their clothes to see Kilgore again
Over hills of sand and hard froze roads where the cotton wagons roll
On past the town of Kilgore and on to old Longview.With their warm suits of clothes and overcoats they walk into a store
They pay the man for some meat and stuff to fix a stew once more
The ties they walk back past the yards till they come to the same old spot
Where East Texas Red just a year ago had dumped their last stew pot.The smoke of their fire went higher and higher a man come down the line
He ducked his head in the blizzardy wind and waved old number nine
He walked off down the cinder dump till he come to the same old spot
And there was the same three men again around that same little pot.Red went to his knees and he hollered,
Please don't pull that trigger on me.
I did not get my business fixed but he did not get his say
A gun wheeled out of an overcoat and it played the old one two
And Red was dead when the other two men set down to eat their stew. 

Eisler on the Go
Eisler on the go,
Eisler on the move
Brother is on the Vinegar truck and
I don't know what I'll doI don't know what I'll do,
I don't know what I'll do
Eisler's on the come and go and
I don't know what I'll doEisler on the farm,
Eisler on the town
Sister in the tickly bush and
I don't know what I'll doEisler on the boat,
Eisler on the ship
Daddy on the henhouse roof and
I don't know what I'll doEisler in the jailoe,
Eisler back at home,
Ranking scratch his head and cry and
I don't know what I'll doEisler him write music,
Eisler him teach school,
Truman him don't play so good and
I don't know what I'll do 

End of My Line
'Long about nineteen thirty-one,
My field boiled up in the boiling sun.'Long about nineteen thirty-two,
Dust did rise and the dust it blew.'Long about nineteen thirty-three,
Livin' in the dust was a killin' me.'Long about nineteen thirty-four,
Dangburn dust it blew some more.'Long about nineteen thirty-five,
Blowed my crops about nine miles high.'Long about nineteen thirty-six,
Me and my wife in a devil of a fix.'Long about nineteen thirty-nine
We fanned our tails for that Orgegon line.We got a hold of a piece of land,
Thirteen miles from the Coulee dam.Coulee dam is a sight to see,
Makes this e-lec-a-tric-i-tee'Lectric lights is mighty fine,
If you're hooked on to the power lineThere just ain't no country extra fine.
If you're just a mile from the end o' the line.Milk my cows and turn my stone,
Till them Grand Coullee boys come along.My eyes are crossed, my back's in a cramp,
Tryin' to read my bible by my coal-oil lamp.No, there ain't no country worth a dime,
If I'm just a mile from the end o' the line. 

Every 100 Years
Every 100 years
Every 100 years
I will wash my face & hands
Every 100 years.Lots of leaves grow fast
Lots of trees grow slow!
How big will I grow in a 100 years?
I'd sure like to know!If I take my shovel
And I dig, and I dig, & dig
How big a hole I'd knock in. 

Faith Will Heal You
Lots of folks say that healing comes
From things that you drink and eat;
Powders and pills and lotions to pour
In your mouth and stomach and feet.Oils and salves and waxes and dyes,
In all of these gods they believe;
But the healing takes place by your faith and your work
And not in any of these.Some would rather to trust in a weed
Or a mineral, root, or an herb.
Others put trust in a salt or a soap,
And not in the word of the Lord.Some people go to the sugar sack,
And some to the kerosene can.
But healing ain't hiding in any of these;
It comes from the heart of man.The rhubarb root and juniper juice,
Cornmeal ashes and liquor.
These things are but empty idle gods;
The fire of the spirit is quicker.The soda and syrup and alkalines
Are as dead as an old doornail.
So put your faith in the work that you do,
And learn that faith will heal.So put your faith in the work that you do,
And learn that faith will heal.Lots of folks say that healing comes
From things that you drink and eat;
Powders and pills and lotions to pour
In your mouth and stomach and feet.Oils and salves and waxes and dyes,
In all of these gods they believe;
But the healing takes place by your faith and your work
And not in any of these.But the healing takes place by your faith and your work
And not in any of these.
But the healing takes place by your faith and your work
And not in any of these. 

Family Reunion
 

Farmer-Labor Train
From the high Canadian Rockies to the land of Mexico,
City and the country, wherever you may go,
Through the wild and windy weather, the sun and sleet and rain,
Comes a-whistlin' through the country this Farmer-Labor train.Listen to the jingle and the rumble and the roar,
She's rollin' through New England to the West Pacific shore.
It's a long time we've been waitin', now she's been whistlin' 'round the bend,
Roll on into Congress on that Farmer-Labor train.There's lumberjacks and teamsters and sailors from the sea,
There's farmin' boys from Texas and the hills of Tennessee,
There's miners from Kentucky, there's fishermen from Maine;
Every worker in the country rides that Farmer-Labor train.There's warehouse boys and truckers and guys that skin the cats,
Men that run the steel mills, the furnace and the blast,
Through the smoky factory cities, o'er the hot and dusty plains,
And the cushions they are crowded, on this Farmer-Labor train.Listen to the jingle and the rumble and the roar,
She's rollin' through New England to the West Pacific shore.
It's a long time we've been waitin', now she's been whistlin' 'round the bend,
Ride on on into Congress on that Farmer-Labor train.There's folks of every color and they're ridin' side by side
Through the swamps of Louisiana and across the Great Divide,
From the wheat fields and the orchards and the lowing cattle range,
And they're rolling onto victory on this Farmer-Labor train.This train pulled into Washington a bright and happy day,
When she steamed into the station you could hear the people say:
"There's that Farmer-Labor Special, she's full of union men
Headin' onto White House on the Farmer-Labor train." 

Fastest of Ponies
Howdy my friend, would you like to go riding
On the fastest of ponies that ever did run
Jump up in my saddle and hold the reins easy
We'll outride the wind and we'll outrun the sun.Tee roodle, tee ridle, set high in my saddle
Tee roodle, tee ridle, you'll fly o'er the grass
Tee roodle, tee ridle, we'll jump this top fence rail
No rider can trail us, no rider can pass.

My hat and my scarf they blow back in the hard wind
His hooves pound the ground like a fast Indian drum
We jump the big ditch and he comes down so easy
He outruns the wild wind back home to his barn
He runs even faster back home to his barn.

Tee roodle, tee ridle, set tight in my saddle
Tee roodle, tee ridle, you'll fly o'er the grass
Tee roodle, tee ridle, we'll jump this top fence rail
No rider can trail us, no rider can pass.

Sit tight in my saddle, we'll pass this wild rabbit
We'll out fly that wild bird that rides on the wind
When he's back in his lot, you can comb him and rub him
The fastest of ponies that ever did run

Tee roodle, tee ridle, sit tight in my saddle
Tee roodle, tee ridle, you'll fly o'er the grass
Tee roodle, tee ridle, we'll jump this top fence rail
No rider can trail us, no rider can pass,
No rider can trail us, no rider can pass. 

Feed of Man
If you
Beat up, butcher, and
You bleed a man:
If you bang up and badger and
Bloodlet a man;
And then I come along
On the feet of man
And half way laff and cry 'bout
The meat of man,
And I do what I can to
Bale string and tie some ballad truths
Up cured out
For the feed of man
And
Folks try to tell me
That it's on God's orders
That you bleed your man;
It's on God's good word that you
Bleed your man;
On God's plan print
That you dead a man;
Or you spit and curse and whip
Your man;
I say I'll help you fix and
Squeeze yourself up a new kind of a God
Of some kind;
One that tells you
Fertilyze and multyplye;
One that
Tells You:
Outsow and outblow,
Outplant and outgrow;
Outdo, and outrun, and outclimb, and out spread
Every other tree and bush
And brushy fruits and flower petalls;
Out fruit them all
For the feed of man;
Out stalk and out hunt and out think
For God's own sweet sake, out think! Out think!
Outthink the fruits
Outgrow these animal kind and shapes of man!
It you miss and go down
Your dust will turn up on that long hot job
Once more again
To help in the feeding and the seed of man
And not in the bleeding and the end of man. 

Fly High
I am flying on this plane
Back into your arms again
And my eyes are sad and cloudy
And my teardrops fall like rain.As I look down past my wind
Flying home to you again
On the clouds I see your picture
While the engine sings your name.:
I’m flying high, up in the sky
But my heart keeps looking for you
All around, down on the ground.
On every hill, in every house
I see your face in every window, down below.I am thinking, flying here
Of those arguments we had
Of the times we slammed our door
And said, goodbye, goodbyeI walked away a dozen times,
I drove away a hundred more,
But all the trains and all the buses
Brought me back here to our door.I’m flying high, up in the sky
But my heart keeps looking for you
All around, down on the ground.
On every hill, in every house
I see your face in every window, down below.I’m flying high, up in the sky
But my heart keeps looking for you
All around, down on the ground.
On every hill, in every house
I see your face in every window, down below.
I see your face in every window, down below. 

Folk Song
I’m gonna tellya, gonna tell howta make a folk song;
Well babe…Uh huh
I'm a gonna show ya, gonna show ya howta make a folk song;
You just catch two perty eyes
And ya hum an’ sing all night babe;
And by the morning’s light you'll have a folk song.I’m glad you asked me, glad you asked me howta make a folk song;
All this night we’ve got to try, and to try, oh baby, lets try;
And when the good sun rides the sky,
We'll have a folk songWell everybody around this world they make folk songs;
All the people round this planet, they’re making folk songs;
Underneath the stars and skies they go dance and cry;
And when the rooster crows at dawn
They'll have a folk songI’m glad, so glad
I’m glad you asked me glad you asked me how to make a folk song
Makes me feel good ta teach you ‘bout my folk song ;
You gotta work and a wiggle, google and a giggle, till we ring the big brass bell;
Every night and mornin’
You'll crave my folk song 

Fox And The Goose
The little baby foxes, eight, nine, and ten / And the old mama fox did tell their dad,
"You'd better make a trip to the goose's pen so we don't starve to death-o." (2x)Well, the daddy fox dug out of his den. / He sniffled his nose in the midnight wind.
He prayed for the moon to hide him when he made for the farmers pen-o. (2x)He followed the wind for a half a mile. / He hid in the dump and the garbage pile.
He heard the dogs barkin' on his trail when he came to the goose's house-o. (2x)"I'll swim the lake, I'll swim the pond / I'll swim the river both up and down.
I could not drag a fat goose down amongst these dogs and hounds-o." (2x)He circled the field, he circled the trees. / He laid false trails thru the stickery weeds.
He left the dogs on the old foot log and he swum for the farmer's goose pen,
He left the hounds and the dogs on the log and he swum for the farmer's goose pen.The granddaddy goose by the candlelight / Told all the other geese about his fights.
"I pecked and I flogged, I bit and I poked, and I run that fox away-o." (2x)The fox dug under the goosey's wall. / "I'm glad to my soul to meet you all.
My family want you to pay us a call or at least your juiciest goose-o." (2x)"I'm skin and bones," the auntie goose ran. / "I'm dry bones too," uncle goose flew.
"We're hard and tough," said mama and pop, and the goslings sat and cried-o. (2x)Well, the three juiciest goslings he grabbed up in his hand. / Back under the wall he ran.
The lake and pond and river he swam while the three begged for their life-o,
The lake and pond and river he swam while the goslings begged for their life-o.Up did sound the hunters' horns. / Up did run the dogs and hounds.
And there on the trail they wagged their tails, as they ate up the fox and the goslings-o. (2x) 

Freedom's Fire
I’ll freeze here in my universe if I cant find my fire to keep me
I dug through your highest mountain crawled in your muddiest ditches
Hot jungle and windy desert looking for my freedom’s fire.Back past my revolutions, past my glacial ages I sent spark of light
Every hand in every nation gave me my blood donation
Every voice was yelling at me, go find our freedom’s fire.I got to be an atom buster, I was born in heavy water,
My big experiment, my freedom’s eye.Nursed by breast, a vacuum bottle,
Test tube the open sky, the clouds that fly,
Found it in all my people but scattered too far apart
Run past my people, each one with a chunk of fire.I walked on every planet, found it in ? moving
Found it in the middle of a heart
Swung on vine and cable, burned theories on your table
Your systems out my windows looking for freedom’s fire.I got to be an atom buster, I was born in heavy water,
My big experiment, my freedom’s eye. 

From Here On In
I'll take one road
from here on in.
From here on in
I'll take one street,
from here on in
I'll take one trail,
one walk, one lane
From here on inI'll climb one hill,
up a mountain side,
through a pasture green
through a vineyard wide.
I'll swim the sea,
tread the sandy shore.
I'll take one gate,
one arch, one door.I'll wade one river,
one little creek, one stream.
I'll cross one valley,
and all between.From here on in
I'll take one road,
one walk, one lane
from here on in. 

Gamblin' Man
Ah gambled down in Washington
Ah gambled down in Maine
Goin' down to Georgia
To knock down my last game
Ahm a gamiblin' Man man man,
Ahm a gambling' Man,
Ahm a gamblin'I had not been in Washington
Many more weeks than three
When I fell in love with a pretty little gal
And she fell in love with me
ahm a Gamblin' Man man man,
Ahm a Gamblin' Man,
Ahm a gambling'She took me in her parlour
Cooled me with her fan,
She said" Oh Mother, Mother
I'm in love with a gamblin' man"
Ahm a gambling' man, man etc.She said "Oh Daughter, Daughter
How could you treat me so,
Leave your poor old Mother
And with that gambler go."
Ahm a gamblin' man, man etc.I hear that train a-comin'
A-comin' round the curve
A-whistlin' and a-screamin'
Strainin' every nerve.
Ahm a gamblin' man, man etc.I wouldn't marry a railroad man
And here's the reason why
I never knew a railroad man
Who wouldn't tell his wife a lie.
Ahm a gamblin' man, man etc.

I would marry a farmer
He's always in the rain
I'd rather marry a gamblin' man
With a big gold watch and chain.
Ahm a gamblin' man, man etc.Man man man
Ahm a gamblin' man man man
Ahm a gamblin' man man man
Ahm a gambling" man. 

Give Me A Nail
Give me a nail and I’ll nail it;
Give me a ship and I’ll sail it;
Give me a bugle and I’ll toot it;
Give me a gun and I’ll shoot it;Give me the work and I’ll do it;
Give me the stew and I’ll stew it;
Give me the bell and I’ll ring it;
Give me the song and I’ll sing it!Give me the words and I’ll talk ‘em;
Give me the miles an’ I’ll walk ‘em;
Give me the crop and I’ll grow it;
Give a row and I’ll hoe it!Give me a life and I’ll live it;
Give me a life and I’ll give it;
Give me a war and I’m in it;
Give me a world and I’ll win it! 

Go Back And Try
One more time
I’ma gonna go back an try;
Gonna go back an’ try just one more time.All you people shakin' your heads,
Gonna go back and try git outta my bed,
Gonna go back an’ try, try one more time.
I’ll make you laff, I'll make you blue,
Shinin' up my floshime shoes;
See Martha walk around my bedside one more time.Come along Marthy, hold my hand,
Hug an’ kiss your natural man,
I’m walkin’ out onna great big bookintour one more time.
I’ll brush my suit and cock my hat,
Take my Stella in my hand;
Gonna travel 'round my country one more time.Goodbye Broadway Hello France
I'm tappin' for you my muddywater dance
Playin' for you my slideyfinger blues one more time.
I’ma gonna boogit from town to town;
When you honeydrinkers gang aroun’
Gals, I'll sing that cyclone down just one more time.Good mornin' blues, how are you today;
Caint you hear me callin' you just one more time?
Mister Lomax, Alan, too,
I’ll jig in every jail I know
I’ll sing my way outta two more prisons one more time.Back t' th’ muddybottom greencorn field,
Back where th’ boll weevil kisst his darlin
You can bringa little water to Sylvye one more time.
Back t' th' gallyhouse drummin joints
Back t’ th’ boogyhouse jookin joint
Sing and play in my long trousers one more time.I’m gonna wheel back, I’m gonna see paw an' maw
Down ‘roun' Mooresport, Louisianna,
I’m runnin barefooted chasin that bullfrog one more time.
I’m helpin Momma, digga great big ‘tater
Showin Daddy how I cut my capers;
Singin louder than th’ bull alligator one more time.I’m stirrin up some stormy floodclouds
I’m singin straddlin’ th' slickery mudcat,
Huggin anda kissin you, sweet little Martha, one more time.
One more time baby you gonna be my wife
Tellin the whole world you're half my life;
Holdin your hand like the day I met you one more time.*The recorded version of this song has not yet been released. 

Go Coney Island, Roll On The Sand
Walk like a lady
Ride like a man
Hop skip and jump
Keep warm my hand
Boat on the water
Train on the land
Go Coney Island
Roll on the sand.Hot dog with mustard
On face and hands
Root beer and burgers
Pickles and ham
Blintzes and cheeses
Knishes and spam
Go Coney Island
Roll on the sand.:
Roll on the sand, sand,
Roll on the sand,
My sugar lump's dancin', hot in the pan
Go Coney Island, every woman and man
Go Coney Island, roll on the sand.Weiners and sodas
Hot dog and pop
Feet got no shoes on
Sidewalks burns hot
Suntan and windburn
Traffic a jam
Go Coney Island
Roll on the sand.Lots of dark glasses
Clothes not so much
I see pretty people
Push up and shove
I smell salt waters
Feel run and dance
Go Coney Island
Roll on the sand.

Go Down To The Water
Go down to the water where oil floats by
Drop your hair down and cry
And write with your finger in the sand
Mail it out with the tide.
Mail it out with the high and the low
Watch the marks in the sand
Listen to the fog on the homeless waves
And feel the salt sea in your hands.Smell that sea wind, taste on your lips
That foam that rolls over my lost ships
And write your letter once more in the sand
Where the breaker dips and our undertow slips.
Kneel down and feel the waters edge
Write our names side by side
And look and listen to all those ships
That toss in the fog and in the tides.Let down your hair when you kneel down there
Let me be the wind that pulls your hair
And you be the man you made out of sand
And let your hands keep making him there.
When nobody is looking kiss your hand
And touch to the nose of your man in the sand
Then lay down with your head on his chest
Be nice, be nice to your man on the sand. 

God and Joseph
Wella, what got Joseph out o’ that hole?
God did, God did!
Who sent that rich man down that road?
God did, God did!
Who took Joseph by his hand
Who took him over to Egypt’s land
Who showed him the dreams of the Pharoah man?
God did, God did!Who made Joseph high as the king?
God did, God did,
Who gave him power to read your dream?
God did, God did!
Who cause the hunger at Joseph’s home?
Who cause his brothers Three to come?
Who gave back all their money and gold?
God did, God did!Who made his Father pack up and move?
God did, God did!
Who made him bring his flocks and wives?
God did, God did!
Who made old Pharoah speak to say:
You can dwell with me for all your days!
Who made come true young Joseph’s dream?
God did, God did!*The recorded version of this song has not yet been released. 

God's Promise
I didn't promise you skies painted blue
Not all colored flowers all your days through
I didn't promise you, sun with no rain
Joys without sorrows, peace without pain.All that I promise is strength for this day,
Rest for my worker, and light on your way.
I give you truth when you need it, my help from above,
Undying friendship, my unfailing love.I never did promise you crowns without trials,
Food with no hard sweat, your tears without smiles,
Hot sunny days without cold wintry snows,
No vict'ry without fightin', no laughs without woes.All that I promise is strength for this day,
Rest for my, worker, my light on your way,
I give you truth when you need it, my help from above,
Undying friendship, my unfailing love.I sure didn't say I'd give you heaven on earth,
A life with no labor no struggles no deaths,
No earthquakes no dryspells, no fire flames no droughts,
No slaving no hungers, no blizzards no blights.All that I promise is strength for this day,
Rest for my worker, my light on your way,
I give you truth when you need it, my help from above,
Undying friendship, my unfailing love.I promise you power, this minute this hour,
The power you need when you fall down to bleed,
I give you my peace, and my strength to pull home
My love for all races all creeds and all kinds.My flavors my saviors my creeds of all kinds,
My love for my saviors, all colors all kinds,
My love for my races all creeders all kinds,
My saviors my flavors my dancers all kinds,
My dancers my prancers my singers all kinds,
My flavors my saviors my dancers all kinds. 

Goin' Away To Sea
I’m goin’ away to sea, babe of mine,
I’m goin’ away to sea, babe of mine,
I’m goin’ away to sea,
Gonna set this old world free,
Gonna set this old world free, babe of mine.You can pack my things in order, babe of mine,
You can pack my things in order, babe of mine,
You can pack my things in order,
‘Cause I’m goin' cross the water,
You can pack my things in order, babe of mine.Don’t you go and leave a light, babe of mine,
Don’t you go and leave a light, babe of mine,
Don’t you go and leave a light
In your window, babe, tonight,
For the enemy to sight, babe of mine.Don’t go talkin’ out of turn, babe of mine,
Don’t go talkin’ out of turn, babe of mine,
Don’t go talkin’ out of turn,
Don’t let Mister Hitler learn,
‘Cause I never would return, babe of mine.I been fightin' on the ocean, babe of mine,
I been fightin’ on the ocean, babe of mine,
I been fightin’ on the ocean,
‘Cause I’m full of rollin’ motion,
So I’m fightin’ on that ocean, babe of mine.If this good old ship goes down, babe of mine,
If this good old ship goes down, babe of mine,
If this good old ship goes down,
Gonna swim right back to town,
I don’t intend to drown yet, babe of mine.Oh, we got to win this race, babe of mine,
Oh, we got to win this race, babe of mine,
We’ve got to win this race,
Put them fascists in their place,
In their long and narrow grave, babe of mine.I’m gonna come right back to you, babe o mine,
I’m gonna come right back to you, babe of mine,
I’m gonna come right back to you
When this war is won and through,
And we’ll ease back down to Georgia, babe of mine.I’m gonna come right back to you
When this war is won and through,
When this war is won and through, babe of mine 

Going Down The Road
I'm blowin' down this old dusty road,
I'm a-blowin' down this old dusty road,
I'm a-blowin' down this old dusty road, Lord, Lord,
An' I ain't a-gonna be treated this a-way.I'm a-goin' where the water taste like wine,
I'm a-goin' where the water taste like wine,
I'm a-goin' where the water taste like wine, Lord,
An' I ain't a-gonna be treated this way.I'm a-goin' where the dust storms never blow,
I'm a-goin' where them dust storms never blow,
I'm a-goin' where them dust storms never blow, blow, blow,
An' I ain't a-gonna be treated this way.They say I'm a dust bowl refugee,
Yes, they say I'm a dust bowl refugee,
They say I'm a dust bowl refugee, Lord, Lord,
An' I ain't a-gonna be treated this way.I'm a-lookin' for a job at honest pay,
I'm a-lookin' for a job at honest pay,
I'm a-lookin' for a job at honest pay, Lord, Lord,
An' I ain't a-gonna be treated this way.My children need three square meals a day,
Now, my children need three square meals a day,
My children need three square meals a day, Lord,
An' I ain't a-gonna be treated this way.It takes a ten-dollar shoe to fit my feet,
It takes a ten-dollar shoe to fit my feet,
It takes a ten-dollar shoe to fit my feet, Lord, Lord,
An' I ain't a-gonna be treated this way.Your a-two-dollar shoe hurts my feet,
Your two-dollar shoe hurts my feet,
Yes, your two-dollar shoe hurts my feet, Lord, Lord,
An' I ain't a-gonna be treated this way.I'm a-goin' down this old dusty road,
I'm blowin' down this old dusty road,
I'm a-blowin' down this old dusty road, Lord, Lord,
An' I ain't a-gonna be treated this way. 

Going Up The Mountain
I was going down the road just the other day
And somebody asked me, "How are you today?"
I said, "I'm going up the mountain, therefore to pray."A good friend said, "Man, I'll play you some cards."
I said, "Boy, you make it sound mighty hard.
But I'm going up the mountain, therefore to pray."Another brother says, "I'll shoot you some dice."
I said "Boy, you sure do make it sound nice.
But I'm heading up this mountain here, therefore to pray."Then said a man, "Hey, let's take a shot of booze."
I said to the man, "I ain't got no time to lose.
I'm going up this mountain's shoulder, therefore to pray."Then come along a millionaire with money in his hand.
He tried to hire me to lie to all my land.
I told him, "I'm heading up this mountain right now, therefore to pray."And up jumped a man with another crooked deal.
I said, "Good friend, I'd rather kneel
Down along my mountaintop somewhere, therefore to pray."I met a woman with jewelry on her finger.
I said to her friend, "I ain't got no time to linger.
I'm halfway up my mountainside, therefore to pray."I next met a woman with dye combed in her hair.
I learned all there was to know about women from her,
So I'm up here on my mountain kneeling, therefore to pray.And next come a man with a fortune for me.
I'd rather be a poor man with a conscience free.
So I'm walking up my mountain right now, therefore to pray.I was going down the road just the other day
Somebody asked me, "How are you today?"
I said, "I'm going up the mountain, therefore to pray." 

Gonna Be A Blackout Tonight
Gonna nail me a black curtain
Up good an' tight
Do what my air raid man says is right
Gonna pull down my shade
An' turn out my light
Gonna be a Blackout
Blackout tonightGonna be a Blackout, Blackout tonight
Gonna be a Blackout tonight
Gonna do what my air raid man says is right
Gonna be a Blackout, Blackout tonightMy town is big
And my town is bright
My town can work and my town can fight
Gonna be a Blackout, Blackout tonight.Gonna be a Blackout, Blackout tonight
Gonna be a Blackout tonight
Gonna do what my air raid man says is right
Gonna be a Blackout, Blackout tonightLights will go out
All over town
And the air raid warden will walk up and down
It's part of the war
I'm gonna do right
Gonna be a Blackout, Blackout tonight. 

Gonna Get Through This World
Well I’m gonna get through this world
The best I can, if I can
And I’m gonna get through this world
And I think I can.
Well I'm gonna work in this world
The best I can, if I can
And I’m gonna work in this world
And I think I canI’m gonna get through this world
The best I can, if I can
I'm gonna work in this world
The best I can, if I can
I’m gonna get through this world
The best I can.Well I’m gonna walk in this world
The best I can, if I can
And I’m gonna walk in this world
And I think I can.
I am gonna talk in this world
The best I can, if I can
And I’m gonna talk in this world
And I think I can. And I think I can.I’m gonna get through this world
The best I can, if I can
I'm gonna work in this world
The best I can, if I can
I’m gonna get through this world
The best I can.Well, I’m gonna clean up this world
The best I can, if I can
And I’m gonna clean up this world
And I think I can.
I'm gonna leave this world behind
The best I can, if I can
I'm gonna leave this world behind
And I think I can. And I think I can.I’m gonna clean up this world
The best I can, if I can
I'm gonna leave this world behind
The best I can, if I can
I’m gonna get through this world
The best I can. 

Goodnight Little Darlin'
:
Goodnight, little darlin', goodnight,
Goodnight, little darlin', goodnight, goodnight,
Goodnight, little darlin', goodnight, goodnight,
Goodnight, little darlin', goodnight.You've played, little darlin', all day
Your eyes are sleepy, I see,
Boys and girls are all sleepin' tight,
Goodnight little darlin', good night.You've played, little darlin' all day,
With dolls and wagons and clay,
Your bath was warm and your jammers are nice,
Goodnight, little darlin', goodnight.You hurt your finger, I see,
Come here and bring him to me.
Wrap little finger up nice and tight,
Goodnight, little darlin', goodnight.You danced and sung with the kids,
Told me all that you did,
Told me your games and told me your fights,
Goodnight, little darlin', goodnight.Tippy tip toe now to bed,
Snug and snug down your head,
Cover you over so nice and tight,
Goodnight, little darlin', goodnight.I'll see you when the morning gets bright,
Don't let the beddybugs bite,
We'll both jump up when the sun gets light,
Goodnight, little darlin', goodnight. 

Goodbye Centralia
It happened an hour ago
Way down in this tunnel of coal
The gas caught a fire from somebody's lamp
And my buddies are choking in smoke.Dear daddy and mother, Goodbye,
Dear sister and brother, Goodbye,
My fingers are weak
And I cannot write
Goodbye Centralia, Goodbye.It looks like the end for me
And all of my partners I see
When that work whistle blows and we don't come home
Do all that you can to help mom.I can hear the moans and the groans
of more than a hundred good men
We're all writing letters to kids that we love
Please carry our notes to our wives.This smoke is choking me down, yes,
The fumes are blinding my eyes
I see Joe Ballantinni, Fred Gutzler & Joy,
Forgive me for things I've done wrong,
I love you lots more than you know
Just work and fight and fix up these mines
so fire can't kill daddies no more.Please name our new baby Joe
So he'll grow up like big Joe
And he'll make that old mining boss clean out your mines
So fires can't break out here no more. 

Gotta Work
I gotta work
Or go nuts
I gotta work
Or go nuts
I gotta work
I gotta work
I gotta work
Or go nutsI get dangerous
If I don’t work
I get mean
If I don’t work
I go screwball
            I go loco
                        I go crazy
                                    If I don’t work.Hurt people
If I don’t work
Kill people
If I go nuts
            Hit people
                        Scratch people
                                    Bite people
If I go nutsI gotta work
I gotta work
I gotta work
Or go nuts
I go screwball
            I go loco
                        I go crazy
                                    If I don’t work.
Hit people
                        Scratch people
                                    Bite people
If I go nuts 

Government Road, The
 

Grand Coulee Dam
Well, the world has seven wonders that the trav'lers always tell,
Some gardens and some towers, I guess you know them well,
But now the greatest wonder is in Uncle Sam's fair lang,
It's the big Columbia River and the big Grand Coulee Dam.

She heads up the Canadian Rockies where the rippling waters glide,
Comes a-roaring down the canyon to meet the salty tide,
Of the wide Pacific Ocean where the sun sets in the West
And the big Grand Coulee country in the land I love the best.

In the misty crystal glitter of that wild and wind ward spray,
Men have fought the pounding waters and met a watery grave,
Well, she tore their boats to splinters but she gave men dreams to dream
Of the day the Coulee Dam would cross that wild and wasted stream.

Uncle Sam took up the challenge in the year of 'thrity-three,
For the farmer and the factory and all of you and me,
He said, "Roll along, Columbia, you can ramble to the sea,
But river, while you're rambling, you can do some work for me."

Now in Washington and Oregon you can hear the factories hum,
Making chrome and making manganese and light aluminum,
And there roars the flying fortress now to fight for Uncle Sam,
Spawned upon the King Columbia by the big Grand Coulee Dam. 

Grassy Grass Grass
Grass grass grass,
tree tree tree,
leafy leaf leaf,
one two three.Birdy birdy bird,
fly fly fly,
nest nest nest,
high high high.Cloudy cloudy cloud,
wind wind wind,
rain rain rain,
mud mud mud,Doggie doggie,
dog runy run run,
quickie quick quick,
homey home home.Bedy bed bed
sheety sheet sheet,
sleepy sleep sleep,
dreamy dream dream.Dancie dance dance,
singy sing sing,
grow grow grow,
biggy big big. 

Green Back Dollar
I don't want your millions, mister.
I don't want your diamond ring.
All I want is the right to live mister.
Give me back my job again.I don't want your Rolls Royce, mister,
I don't want your pleasure yacht,
All I want is food for my babies,
Now give to me my old job back.I don't want your millions, mister.
I don't want your diamond ring.
All I want is the right to live mister.
Give me back my job again.We worked to build this country, mister,
While you enjoyed a life of ease.
You've stolen all that we've built, mister,
Now our children starve and freeze.I don't want your millions, mister.
I don't want your diamond ring.
All I want is the right to live mister.
Give me back my job again.Yes, you have a land deed, mister,
The money is all in your name.
But where's the work that you did, mister?
I'm demanding back my job again.I don't want your millions, mister.
I don't want your diamond ring.
All I want is the right to live mister.
Give me back my job again.Think me dumb if you wish, mister,
Call me green or blue or red.
There's just one thing that I know, mister,
Our hungry babies must be fed.I don't want your millions, mister.
I don't want your diamond ring.
All I want is the right to live mister.
Give me back my job again.We'll organize together, mister,
In one big united band,
And with a Farmer-Labor party
We will win our just demands.I don't want your millions, mister.
I don't want your diamond ring.
All I want is the right to live mister.
Give me back my job again.Take the two old parties, mister,
No difference in them I can see.
But with a Farmer-Labor party,
We will set the workers free. 

Gypsy Davy
It was late last night when the boss came home
askin' for his lady
The only answer that he got,
"She's gone with the Gypsy Davey,
She's gone with the Gypsy Dave."Go saddle for me a buckskin horse
And a hundred dollar saddle.
Point out to me their wagon tracks
And after them I'll travel,
After them I'll ride.Well I had not rode to the midnight moon,
When I saw the campfire gleaming.
I heard the notes of the big guitar
And the voice of the gypsies singing
That song of the Gypsy Dave.There in the light of the camping fire,
I saw her fair face beaming.
Her heart in tune with the big guitar
And the voice of the gypsies singing
That song of the Gypsy Dave.Have you forsaken your house and home?
Have you forsaken your baby?
Have you forsaken your husband dear
To go with the Gypsy Davy?
And sing with the Gypsy Davy?
The song of the Gypsy Dave?Yes I've forsaken my husband dear
To go with the Gypsy Davy,
And I've forsaken my mansion high
But not my blue-eyed baby,
Not my blue-eyed baby.She smiled to leave her husband dear
And go with the Gypsy Davy;
But the tears come a-trickling down her cheeks
To think of the blue-eyed baby,
Pretty little blue-eyed baby.Take off, take off your buckskin gloves
Made of Spanish leather;
Give to me your lily-white hair
And we'll ride home together
We'll ride home again.No, I won't take off my buckskin gloves,
They're made of Spanish leather.
I'll go my way from day to day
And sing with the Gypsy Davy
That song of the Gypsy Davy,
That song of the Gypsy Davy,
That song of the Gypsy Dave. 

Gypsy's Fortune
On one dark and stormy midnight
when the wind and snow did blow,
came a fair and tremulous maiden
to a gypsy's cottage door."Can you tell me, can you tell me
If the one I love is true?"
"Take this fortune from a gypsy,
He will bid you sad adieu.""Tell me, does he love another?
Does he love one else than me?"
"No, he loves you but must leave you.
He will bid you sad adieu.""When will come my time for parting
In this northern-southern war?"
"Let it grieve you none to leave him,
Though you see him nevermore.""Will I learn to love another,
Will my heart so happy be?"
"Oh don't let this parting wreck you,
Happy married you will be."Life is sometimes strange arranged,
Sometimes hard to understand.
Listen to my gypsy's fortune,
You'll be happy in the end. 

Hangknot, Slipknot
Did you ever see a hangman tie a hangknot?
Did you ever see a hangman tie a hangknot?
I've seen it many a time and he winds, he winds,
After thirteen times he's got a hangknot.Tell me will that hangknot slip, no it will not,
Will that hangknot slip, no it will not.
Slip around your neck, but it won't slip back again
Hangknot, hangknot, that hangknot.Did you ever lose your father on a hangknot?
Did you ever lose your father on a hangknot?
They hung him from a pole, and they shot him full of holes,
Left him there to rot on that hangknot.Tell me who makes the laws for that hangknot?
Who makes the laws for that hangknot?
Who says who will go to the calaboose?
Get the hangman's noose on a hangknot.I don't know who makes the law for that hangknot.
I don't know who makes the law for that hangknot.
But the bones of many a men are whistling in the wind,
Just because they tied their laws with a hangknot. 

Hanuka Bell
Dinga lingle lingle, I ring your bell
Knocka knock knockie knock at your door
The week of Hanuka now is here
And you must be sad no moreI’ll help you clean and scrubbity scrub
I’ll dress you pretty and sweet, sweet, sweet,
I’ll dance you right out your door, door, door,
And you must be sad no more.Here’s my old man that drives my old horse
Hitched up to my junky old cart
His clothes look older than you and me
But he talks with a song in his heartGrandma tells tales of old Hanuka times
Us kids walk all back to those years
She waves both her hands and a fire lights her eye
And she never looks sad anymore.Hanuka time is the time for us all
To tell things that troubled our minds
To untie old knots of bad feelings we’ve had
And try not to look sad anymoreIt’s dinga lingle lingle, I dingle your bell
Yes, I knocka knock knock at your door
Eight days of sweet Hanuka make me feel like new
So I don’t look so sad anymore 

Hanuka Dance
Tippy tap toe! Happy Hanukah!
‘Round you go! My little latke!
On your toes! Happy Hanuka!
And around and around you go!Clap your hands! Happy Hanuka!
Clap clap hands! My little shtroodler!
On your toes! Happy Hanuka!
And around and around you go!Jump real high! Happy Hanuka!
Jump jump high! My little fruitycake!
On your toes! Happy Hanuka!
And around and around you go!Run real fast! Happy Hanuka!
Runny run run! My little sugar pie!
On your toes! Happy Hanuka!
And around and around you go!Hop hop hop! Happy Hanuka!
Hoppity hop! My little rabbit!
On your toes! Happy Hanuka!
And around and around you go!Skippy skip skip! Happy Hanuka!
Skippity skip! My little honeybun!
On your toes! Happy Hanuka!
And around and around you go! 

Hanuka Gelt
Hanuka, Hanukahh, One two three;
Hanuka, Hanukahh, A B C;
Hanuka, Hanukahh, Four, Three, Two!
Makes me love even you! You! You!
Makes me love even you! You! You!Hanuka, Hanukahh, Eight, Nine, Ten!
Hanuka Geltula, kiss me again!
Hug me purple! Squeezle me blue!
Makes me love even you! You! You!
Makes me love even you! You! You!Hanuka, Hanuka, Hanuka Gelt!
Hanuka, Hanuka, Hanuka Gelt!
I have told you how I felt!
Hanuka, Hanuka, Hanuka Gelt!
Hanuka, Hanuka, Hanuka Gelt!Hanuka, Hanuka, ‘Leven and Seven!
Hanuka Geltula, Dance me to Heaven!
Tickle me! Feed me a pickeldy peach!
Makes me love myself, self, self!
Makes me love myself, self, self!Hanuka, Hanukahh, Forty and Eight!
Here we go, Hanuka, Come to my gate!
We’ll go out early and stay out late!
Makes me love even you! You! You!
Makes me love even you! You! You! 

Hanukah Tree
Round and around my Hanukah tree
Round and around I go
Round and around my Hanukah tree
Because I love you so
Round and around my Hanukah tree
Round and around we go
Round and around I’ll hold your hand
Because you love me so
Round and around my Hanukah tree
Round and around we go
Round and round I’ll hold your hand
Because you love me soRound and around our Hanukah tree
Round and around we go
Clap our hands as loud as we can
Because I love you so
Round and around our Hanukah tree
Round and around we go
Round and around our Hanukah tree
Because you love me so
Round and around our Hanukah tree
Round and around we go
Round and around our Hanukah tree
Because you love me so 

Hanuka's Flame
Hanuka candlelight, see my flame
Shining on my window’s pane;
Come flicker ‘cross my glassy glass
And light each lonesome to pass.If your lifelong heavy load
Brings you down my path and down my road,
My light of Hanuka shines your way
To ask you in to rest a day.Hanuka candle dances warm
To help you weather your heavy storm;
Shines like my lighthouse light this night
To bring your worried soul my lightNow as I light my first and my last
Of all nine candles to guide you past
Through these winds of blowing snows
To take you to your Hanuka home.If you don’t wish to stop inside;
Too bashful proud, or afraid of pride,
I’ll send my beam to light your dream
Under your snow, where my newgrass hides. 

Happy Joyous Hanuka
How many nights for Hanukah?
Happy joyous Hanukah
Nights and days, days and nights,
Happy joyous Hanukah:
Eight are the nights of Hanukah
Happy joyous Hanukah
Eight are the days, and eight are the nights
Happy joyous HanukahHow many candles do I light?
Happy joyous Hanukah
Eight are the candles you should light
For a Happy joyous HanukahOne for Moses on the Mount
Happy joyous Hanukah
Two for the mother and father love
Happy Joyous HanukahThree for the Books that Ezra taught
Happy joyous Hanukah
Four’s for the Hebrew children
Happy joyous HanukahFive for the Brothers Maccabee
Happy joyous Hanukah
Six for the tricks the King did play
Happy Joyous HanukahSeven for the sons of Hannah that died
Not so happy Hanukah
Eight for the newbuilt alter place
Happy joyous HanukahNine is the light of God that shines
Happy joyous Hanukah
Around this whole wide world tonight
Happy joyous HanukahNine is for God’s light that shines
Eight for the newbuilt alter place
Seven for the sons of Hannah that died
Six for kings and the tricks they tried
Five for the brothers Maccabee
Four for the Hebrew children
Three for the Books that Ezra taught
Two for the father and mother love
One for Moses on the MountEight are the night of Hanukah
Happy joyous Hanukah
Eight are the days and eight are the nights
Happy Joyous HanukahHAPPY JOYOUS HANUKAH! 

Hard Ain't It Hard
There is a house in this old town,
And that's where my true love lays around.
And he takes other women right down on his knee
And he tells them a little tale he won't tell me.It's a-hard and it's hard, ain't it hard
To love one that never did love you?
It's a-hard, and it's hard, ain't it hard, great God,
To love one that never will be true?First time I seen my true love
He was walkin' by my door.
The next time I saw his false hearted smile
He was layin' dead and cold on floor.Well, who's goin' to kiss your ruby lips,
And who's goin' to hold you to his breast?
And who will talk your future over
While I'm out ramblin' in the West?Don't go to drinkin' or to gamblin',
Don't go there your sorrows to drown.
That hard-liquor place is a low-down disgrace,
It's the meanest old place in this town 

Hard Travelin'
I've been havin' some hard travelin', I thought you knowed
I've been havin' some hard travelin', way down the road
I've been havin' some hard travelin', hard ramblin', hard gamblin'
I've been havin' some hard travelin', lordI've been ridin' them fast rattlers, I thought you knowed
I've been ridin' them flat wheelers, way down the road
I've been ridin' them blind passengers, dead-enders, kickin' up cinders
I've been havin' some hard travelin', lordI've been hittin' some hard-rock minin', I thought you knowed
I've been leanin' on a pressure drill, way down the road
Hammer flyin', air-hose suckin', six foot of mud and I shore been a muckin'
And I've been hittin' some hard travelin', lordI've been hittin' some hard harvestin', I thought you knowed
North Dakota to Kansas City, way down the road
Cuttin' that wheat, stackin' that hay, and I'm tryin' make about a dollar a day
And I've been havin' some hard travelin', lordI've been working that Pittsburgh steel, I thought you knowed
I've been a dumpin' that red-hot slag, way down the road
I've been a blasting, I've been a firin', I've been a pourin' red-hot iron
I've been hittin' some hard travelin', lordI've been layin' in a hard-rock jail, I thought you knowed
I've been a laying out 90 days, way down the road
Damned old judge, he said to me, "It's 90 days for vagrancy."
And I've been hittin' some hard travelin', lordI've been walking that Lincoln highway, I thought you knowed,
I've been hittin' that 66, way down the road
Heavy load and a worried mind, lookin' for a woman that's hard to find,
I've been hittin' some hard travelin', lord 

Hard Work
While we're on the subject of hard work
I just wanted to say that I always was a man to work.I was born working and I worked my way up by hard work.
I ain't never go nowhere yet but I got there by hard work:
Work of the hardest kind.
I been down and I been out
And I've been busted, disgusted and couldn't be trusted.
I worked my way up and I worked my way down.I've been drunk and I've been sober. I've had hard times and I got hijacked
And been robbed for cash and robbed for credit.
Worked my way into jail and outta jail
And I woke up alotta mornings and I didn't even know where I was at.But the hardest work I ever done is when I was trying to get myself
a worried woman to ease my worried mind.
Now I'm gonna tell you just about how much hard work I had to do to get this here
women that I'm a-tellin you about.I shook hands with 97 of her kinfolks and her blood relatives and I
done the same with 86 people that was just her friends and her neighbors.
Kissed 73 babies and put dry pants on 34 of em' as well as others
And done the same thing several times - as well as a lot of other things
just about like this.I held 125 head of wild horses, put saddles and bridles on more that that,
harnessed some of the craziest, wildest teams in the whole country.
I rode 14 loco broncos to a dead standstill and let 42 hound dogs lick me all over.
Seven times I was bit by hungry dogs and I was chewed all to pieces by
water moccasins and rattlesnakes on two separate river bottoms.
I chopped and I carried 314 armloads of stove wood, 100 buckets of coal,
and I carried a gallon of kerosene 18 miles over the mountains, got lost,
lost a pair of shoes in a mud hole.
And I chopped and I weeded 48 rows of short cotton, 13 acres of bad corn
and cut sticker weeds out of 11 back yards.
All on accounta' cause I wanted to show her that I was a man a I liked to work.I cleaned out 9 barnloads and cranked 31 automobiles, all makes and models.
Pulled 3 cars out of mud holes and 4 out of snowdrifts.
I dug 5 cisterns of water for some of her friends and neighbors
and run all kinds of errands.I played the fiddle for 9 churches meetings and I joined 11 separate denominations.
I signed up and joined up for 7 of the best trade unions I could find
And paid my dues about 6 weeks ahead of time.Waded 40 miles of swamps, 60 big rivers,
Walked across 2 mountain ranges and crossed three deserts.
I got the fever and I got sunstroke and I got malaria and I got the flu
and I got moonstruck and skeeter bit, the poison ivy and the 7 year itch
and the blind staggers.I was given up for lost and dead about 2 dozen times.
Struck by lightning, struck by Congress, struck by friends and kinfolks
as well as by three cars on the highways and a lotta times in peoples hen-houses.
I been hit and run down and run over and walked on and knocked around
And I'm just settin' here now trying to study up what else I can do to show
that woman that I still ain't afraid of hard work. 

Harness Up The Day
It’s a wrinkled, crumbled, rumpled look
That’s scattered ‘cross my bed
Where a friend of mine now long gone
Used to lay her restless head
The moon would fall across the sky
The stars would take a peep
And I would stay awake at nights
To watch my lover sleepLots of history-making visions
Through my dusty brain would chase
When I’d see the moonlight shimmer
In the shadows on her face
The sun would chase the dreamy moon
The stars from out the skies
The day would break and I would see
The ocean in her eyesAnd in the dew drop glitter
Of some radiant crystal spray
We’d saddle up the weather
And we’d harness up the day
Weld up the eaves and corners
Nail up the hoists and beams
Organize the day of work
To rivet to our dreamsIt’s a wrinkled, crumbled, rumpled look
That’s scattered ‘cross my bed
Where a friend of mine now long gone
Used to lay her restless head
The moon would fall across the sky
The stars would take a peep
And I would stay awake at nights
To watch my lover sleep 

Harriet Tubman's Ballad
I was five years old in Bucktown Maryland
When into slavery I was sent.
I'll tell you of the beatings and of the fighting
In my ninety-three years I've spent.I helped a field hand make a run for freedom
When my fifteenth year was rolling round.
And the guard he caught him in a little store
In a little slavery village town. The boss made a grab to catch the field hand
I jumped in and blocked the door.The boss he hit me with a two pound scale iron
And I went black down on the floor. On a bundle of rags in our log cabin
My mother she ministered unto my needs.
It was here I swore I'd give my life blood
Just to turn my people free.In '44 I married John Tubman
Well I loved him well till '49.
But he would not come and fight beside me
So I left him there behind.I left Bucktown with my two brothers
But they got scared and run back home.
I followed my northern star of freedom
I walked the grass and trees alone.I slept in a barn loft and in a haystack
I slept with my people in slavery shacks.
They said I'd die by the boss man's bullets
But I told them I can't turn back.The sun was shining in the early morning
When I come to my free state line
I pinched myself to see if I was dreaming
I just could not believe my eyes.I went back home and I got my parents
I loaded them into a buckboard hack.
We crossed six states and other slaves followed
Up to Canada we made our tracks.One slave got scared and he tried to turn backwards
I pulled my pistol in front of his eyes.
I said get up and walk to your freedom
Or by this fireball you will die.When John Brown hit them at Harper's Ferry
My men was fighting right by his side.
When John Brown swung upon his gallows
It was then I hung my head and cried.Give the black man guns and give him powder
To Abe Lincoln this I said:
You've just crippled that snake of slavery
We've got to fight to kill him dead.When we faced the guns of lightning
And the thunders broke our sleep.
After we waded the bloody rainstorms
It was dead men that we reaped.Yes, we faced the zigzag lightning
But it was worth the price we paid.
When our thunder had rumbled over
We'd laid slavery in its grave.Come now and stand around my deathbed
And I will sing some spirit songs.
I'm my way to my greater union
Now my ninety-three years are gone.

He And She
He's like the wind from the mountain
She's like the high sky above
He's like an eagle there flying
She's like the sweet turtle dove.He's like a storm o'er the oceans
She's like this springtime air
And he and she appear to be
Contented and a well married pair.He's like the lions in the forest
She's like the deer in the shade
He's like a sun shining brightly
She's like a cool summer's glade.He's like a wild tornado
She's like a day that's fair
And he and she are in love I can see
Contented and a well married pair. 

Headdy Down
Honey, lay your head down,
Headdy down, head down;
Zibber lay your head down
Just like mine.:
Headdy down, Headdy down,
Headdy headdy head down;
Baby lay your head down
Just like mine.Old man Zibber See,
Bizzy Bee, Zibby Zea;
Dibuck lay your head down
Just like mine.

Joady, lay your head down,
Keppy down, Kepula
Joady, lay your head down
Just like mine.

Joady Ben, Joadulah,
Benny, Benny Boombloom,
Joady lay your head down
Just like mine.

 

Healing Hand
 

Hear You Sing Again
If I could only hear my mother sing again
If I could close my eyes and hear your voice as then
All the friends and family
would sing along with me,
and set your spirit free

In my heart I hear you sing again
Every note as natural as then
and when I sing those songs
for family and friends,
in my heart I hear you sing again

I know the troubled times that turned your hair to grey
And all the tears and sorrows followed to your grave
But deep within the heart of hunger,
there were always melodies
passed from you and me

In my heart I hear you sing again
Every note as natural as then
and when I sing those songs
for family and friends,
in my heart I hear you sing again

And it's a long, long road I've come
since my mother's songs were heard
But the child I can't outrun
still hangs on every word

In my heart I hear you sing again
Every note as natural as then
and when I sing those songs
for family and friends,
in my heart I hear you sing again
In my heart I hear your voice again 

Heaven
It’s after my work tired and weary, I lay down to rest my eyes,
I see this world change in a whirlwind and heaven flies down from the skies;
I see rising up from my wreckage cities and mansions so bright
I see my friends eyes and their faces lit up with a bright shining light.I walk through the sunshiny factory where dresses and shirts are both clean;
A brother and sister are singing at work as they watch all the wheels;
No smudge clouds of smoke hide my valley, my sky it is clear for miles;
The mountains are all dancing happy, the trees are waving me smiles.There are no sickly faces about me, the children are healthy and gay;
Not one homeless soul is around me, nor lost, nor cripple nor lame;
The street laid in finest of plastics, the atom is laboring as well;
No airships are crashing here by me, no dead ones in burning hotels.No fast cars collide nor turn over, no death curve along my new road;
No cheaters, no gamblers, no robbers, no graveyard, no prisons, no jails;
No gasbombs, no brass knucks, no billies, no battles ‘tween worker and boss;
No patrolmen, no officer, policeman, to ride into crowds on his horse.The last labor battles are ended, they’re shown on the screen and the page;
The workhand is happy at building his world like the play on his stage;
Profiteers are gone and forgotten, except in my history and book;
My friends all have jobs here in heaven and sing as I stand here and look.I am sawing the finest made fiddle, I am touching the richest skin drum;
I am blowing the sweetest of woodwinds and blowing the deepest of horns;
I dance to my music I’m making, and the world joins in with my dance;
Science and hope cures the fevers, not one grain is blowing by chance.Every hand works in hand with the other and not for power nor greed;
Every hand works to its fullest ability and is paid in its deepest of need;
No cancer, no tubercolosis, no paralysis nor asylums are here
No bowery nor skid row of homeless, no eye that is blinded by tears.If you can only see with me this vision of heaven I dreamed,
Then you can take new faith in working with comrades and friends
And when I woke up from my sleeping and looked down my raggedy street,
I go back to work with my vision and I drink down the bitter and sweet.I know as you hear such a dream, friend, you will not pass it along;
I do not expect you to sing it as I do, nor to sing such a curious song;
I wrote down this song for my own self, and sing it now to my own soul.
But if you’ll sing songs of your dreamings, then you will reap treasures untold. 

Heaven My Home
Tryin' to make a heaven my home, home!
Tryin' to make a heaven my home, sweet home!
This old world just ain't my home;
Tryin' to make a heaven my home!Big wind blowed my crops all away!
This world ain't my home!
Looks like I just can't make the grade!
Gotta make heaven my home!Tryin' to make a heaven my home, home
Tryin' to make a heaven my home, sweet home!
This old world just ain't my home;
Tryin' to make a heaven my home!Cain't hold my dike 'gainst all this flood!
This world ain't my home!
I'll wash my soul in my Saviour's blood!
Gotta make heaven my home!Tryin' to make a heaven my home, home
Tryin' to make a heaven my home, sweet home!
This old world just ain't my home;
Tryin' to make a heaven my home!I lift and I bend, I sweat and I strain!
This world ain't my home!
Every job I touch is aches and pains!
Gotta make heaven my home!Tryin' to make a heaven my home, home
Tryin' to make a heaven my home, sweet home!
This old world just ain't my home;
Tryin' to make a heaven my home!What makes everybody run hide from me?
This world ain't my home!
I've gotta try to love everybody that I see!
Gotta make heaven my home!Tryin' to make a heaven my home, home
Tryin' to make a heaven my home, sweet home!
This old world just ain't my home;
Tryin' to make a heaven my home! 

Hesitating Beauty
For your sparkling cocky smile
I have walked a million miles
Begging you to come wed me in the Spring
Why do you my dear delay
What makes you laugh and turn away?
You're a hesitating beauty Nora LeeWell I know that you are itching to get married, Nora Lee
And I know I am twitching for the same thing, Nora Lee
By the star and clouds above
We can spend our lives in love
You're a hesitating beauty Nora LeeWe can build a house and home
Where the flowers come to bloom
Around our yard I'll nail a fence so high
That the boys with peeping eyes
Cannot see that angel face
Of my hesitating beauty, Nora Lee.We can ramble hand in hand
Across the grasses of our land
I'll kiss you for each leaf on every tree
We can our kids to play
Where the dry winds blow today
If you'll quit your hesitating, Nora Lee 

Highway of Light
All thru this night dear
my highway of light dear
Lights up the night dear
My highway of light.All along my big roadside
I'll raise you a house, dear
our house will shine bright here
By my highway of light.The night it looks dark, dear
But you mustn't fear, dear,
Our cities they'll shine here
By my highway of light.The sun & the stars dear
They'll shine on our highway
They'll shine on our home here
By my highway of light.The lights will shine down dear
On all of our blossoms
our seeds and our harvests
By my highway of light.By the starlight above you
I'll tell you I love you
and you'll shine for me by
my Highway of Light.*The recorded version of this song has not yet been released. 

Hobo's Lullaby
Go to sleep you weary hobo
Let the towns drift slowly by
Can't you hear the steel rails hummin'
That's the hobo's lullabyI know your clothes are torn and ragged
And your hair is turning gray
Lift your head and smile at trouble
You'll find peace and rest somedayNow don't you worry 'bout tomorrow
Let tomorrow come and go
Tonight you're in a nice warm boxcar
Safe from all that wind and snowI know the police cause you trouble
They cause trouble everywhere
But when you die and go to Heaven
You'll find no policemen thereSo go to sleep you weary hobo
Let the towns drift slowly by
Listen to the steel rails hummin'
That's a hobo's lullaby 

Hoecake Fritter
 

Holy Ground
Take off, take off your shoes
This place you’re standing, it’s holy ground
Take off, take off your shoes
The spot you’re standing, its holy groundThese words I heard in my burning bush
This place you’re standing, it’s holy ground
I heard my fiery voice speak to me
This spot you’re standing, it’s holy groundThat spot is holy holy ground
That place you stand it’s holy ground
This place you tread, it’s holy ground
God made this place his holy groundTake off your shoes and pray
The ground you walk it’s holy ground
Take off your shoes and pray
The ground you walk it’s holy groundEvery spot on earth I trapse around
Every spot I walk it’s holy ground
Every spot on earth I trapse around
Every spot I walk it’s holy groundEvery spot it’s holy ground
Every little inch it’s holy ground
Every grain of dirt it’s holy ground
Every spot I walk it’s holy ground 

Honeyky Hanukah
It’s Honeyka Hanukah ‘round and around,
Honeycake Hanukah, eat them down,
Latkes and goody things all over town,
It’s Honeyky Hanukah time.It’s Honeyky Hanukah, shaky my hand,
My candles are burning all over this land,
To light the dark road for the man passing by,
It’s Honeyky Hanukah time.It’s Honeyky Hanukah, kissy my cheek,
The light in my window it burns for a week
I’ll open my present and take a little peek,
It’s Honeyky Hanukah time.It’s Honeyky Hanukah, makes me feel glad,
This box for mother and this box for dad,
For sister and brother, nice ribbons I’ll tie,
It’s Honeyka Hanukah time.It’s Honeyky Hanukah, huggy me tight,
It’s Hanukah day, and it’s Hanukah night,
If you’ve got no money, well, that’s all right.
It’s Honeyky Hanukah time.It’s Honeyka Hanukah, kiss my some more,
We’ll sing and go dancing around on the floor,
Your kiss is nicer than cakes from the store,
It’s Honeyky Hanukah time.It’s Honeyky Hanukah, brushy my hair,
Let’s dance a big horah and jump in the air,
You look lots prettier to me every year
At Honeyky Hanukah time. 

Hoodoo Voodoo
Hoodoo voodoo,
Seven twenty, one two;
Haystacks, hostacks,
A B C.
High poker, low joker,
Ninety nine a Zero;
Sidewalk, streetcar,
Dance a goofy dance.Blackbirdy, bluejay;
One two three four;
Trash back, jump back,
E F G.
Biggy hat, little hat,
Fattyman, skinnyman;
Grasshopper, greensnake,
Hold my hand.Hoodoo voodoo
Chooka chooky choochoo;
True blue, how true;
Kissle me now.Momma cat, Tommy Kat,
Diapers on my clothes line;
Two four six eight;
I run hide.
Pretty girl, pretty boy,
Pony on a tincan.
I’ll be yours and you’ll be mine.Jinga jangler, tingalingle;
Picture on a bricky wall;
Hot and scamper, foamy lather;
Huggle me close.
Hot breeze, old cheese,
Slicky slacky fish tail;
Brush my hair and kissle me some more. 

Hoping Machine
Don’t let anything knock your props out from under you
Always keep your mind clear, let your plans come out of mistakes
These are the plans and nothing can tear down
Made out of things that have already been torn downWhatever you do, wherever you go
Don’t lose your grip on life and that means
Don’t let any earthy calamity knock your dreamer and your hoping machineMusic is the language of the mind that travels
Carries the key to the laws of time and space
Lonesome train whistling down the silent wail of wind
Life is the sound, creation has been a songWhatever you do, wherever you go
Don’t lose your grip on life and that means
Don’t let any earthy calamity knock your dreamer and your hoping machineOut of orderQuick to manufacture their schemes and ideas
Faster than any turn a tide can wash you out
Word is the music and the people are the song
Tomorrows chances feel like a singing godWhatever you do, wherever you go
Don’t lose your grip on life and that means
Don’t let any earthy calamity knock your dreamer and your hoping machineOut of order 

Hot Rod Hotel
I'm a porter and a night clerk at the old Hot Rod Hotel
I clean and scrub the lobby down and thirty one rooms as well
I wax and shine their boots and shoes, I brush down their crinkeldy clothes
I meet the buses and the trains and show you to your doorBell bottom pants brought two boys in at six fourteen last night
Two girls checked in at ten otwo and I flipped on their light
The lamrods wife looks in their doors and finds one terrible sight
Those boys and girls got bawled up in their doors and rooms last nightA bloody flood could never messed these rooms up any worse
It looked like Moe had used this room to grease and breed a horse
Old gum and hairs and sticky rags, old bottles on the floors
Gobs of spit and condom rubbers on the windows, walls and doorsThe lammy tried to make me clean up the crappy mess
Or else he'd fire me off my job and let me starve to death
I laid aside my polish rag and downed my dusting pan
And I've not seen the old Hot Rod nor that old town since then 

House of Earth
Come to my House of Earth if you would like
For me to give your old time feelings back.Come here to my house of good rich earth if you
Would like me teach your wife a thing or two.Come here to this legal illegal place for joys
And teach your wife this way to grow new boys.I’ll take you by your had and show you whirls
Of these same feelings that grow pretty girls.I’ll wash your feet a couple of times a day
Till all your old time sorrows melt away.You leave some drops of honey on my couch
I leave a couple of dollars in your pouch.My house of earth is the richest land in town
I pity those dead ones that at me frown.SO come to my house of earth and learn it’s worth
A few green folded bills to learn of birth.I’ll kiss you in such odd and natural ways
Your wife will then find out that kissing pays.Two times a day I’ll wash you in my tub
Ten times a day I’ll pat your skin and rub.Call me a prostitute and a whore, too,
I do these tricks your wife refuses to.I swear by all my bibles you won’t regret
I’ve never met a man that’s sorry yet.I love you once to teach you all your life
The things to do when you are with your wife.Your wife should be quite glad and proud of me
For waking both of you up these things to see.My house of earth runs down with wine and rum
Lots of different ways here you can come.If you do come I will be glad to see
If you don’t come I’m glad you don’t need me. I’ll furnish red hot kisses and the hole
That wakes up sleeping sickness in your soul. 

House of the Rising Sun
There is a house in New Orleans
You call the Rising Sun.
It's been the ruin of many a poor soul
And me, oh God, I'm one.

If I'd listened to what mama said, 
I'd be at home today.
Being so young and foolish, poor girl
I let a gambler lead me astray .

My mother she's a tailor,
Sews those new blue jeans.
My sweetheart, he's a drunkard, Lord God
He drinks down in New Orleans.

He fills his glasses to the brim,
Passes them around.
The only pleasure that he gets out of life 
Is a-hoboin' from town to town.

The only thing a drunkard needs
Is a suitcase and a trunk.
The only time that he's half satisfied
Is when he's on a drunk.

Go and tell my baby sister 
Never do like I have done.
Shun that house down in New Orleans
That they call that Rising Sun.

It's one foot on the platform, 
One foot on the train.
I'm going back down to New Orleans
To wear my ball and my chain.

My life is almost over,
My race is almost run.
Going back down to New Orleans 
To that house of the Rising Sun. 

Howdi Do
I stick out my little hand
To ev’ry woman, kid and man
And I shake it up and down, howjido, howjido
Yes, I shake it up and down, howjidoHowdy doozle doodle doozie
Howji hijie heejie hojie,
Howji hojie heejie hijie,
Howjido, howjido, howjido, sir,
Doodle doosie, howjido.And when you walk in my door,
I will run across my floor,
And I'll shake you by the hand,
Howjido, howjido,
Yes, I'll shake it up and down, howjidoOn my sidewalk, on my street,
Any place that we do meet,
Then I'll shake you by your hand,
Howjido, howjido,
Yes, I'll shake it up and down, howjidoWhen I first jump out of bed,
Out my window goes my head,
And I shake it up and down,
Howjido, howjido,
I shake at all my windows, howjidoI feel glad when you feel good,
You brighten up my neighborhood,
Shakin'hands with ev'rybody,
Howjido, howjido,
Shakin' hands with ev'rybody, howjidoWhen I meet a dog or cat,
I will rubby rub his back,
Shakey, shakey, shakey paw,
Howjido, howjido,
Shaking hands with everybody, howdy do. 

Howdy Little Newlycome
Howdy little newlycome
I'll sing to you my song
I'd like to tell you all about
The place you just come from
I'll hold you to my bosom
And I'll feel you nice and warm
I'll tell you how you found your way
To the world here where you were born
Di-di dee dee and da-dee, da-dee eye dumMommy and yer Poppy,
They eat some cake and bread
We drank a glass of brandy wine
Of white and yellow and red
We laughed and sang and hugged and kissed
And held each other's hands
And danced away together
To your newborn angel's landWe found honey sweet to make your feet
Good bread to make your head
And cheese to make your knees
Green vines to make your arms
With the wind that blows
We made your toes
And the rain that made your hands
This is how we found you
In your new born baby landIt was my door that you come through
To laugh and cry in this world
It's my same door I open up
For all my boys and girls
Your daddy and your mother
Did open their gates so wide
That you kicked your way without a scratch
From the new born baby's sideYou come from me and I come from you
That's how we both did come
Milk and honey and bread and cheese
And berries and wine and rum
You feel so soft and tender and smooth
And warm here to my hand
I feel so glad that you can see me
From that new born baby's landSo it's howdy little newlycome
I'll sing to you my song
I'd like to tell you a little bit
About the place you just come from
I'll hold you to my bosom
You'll keep me nice and warm
And you'll tell me how you found your way
To the world here where you were born. 

I'll Eat You, I'll Drink You
I'll eat you, I'll drink you
Yum yum yum yum yum.
I'll drink you, I'll drink you
Slip slop slippy slippy slop.Well, I'll eat you and you'll eat me
And I'll eat you and you'll eat me
Sody pop, ice cream, sugar in my tea
1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2, 3.
Ho ho ha ha hee hee hee,
And I'm a-gonna eat you up.
I'm a-gonna drink you down.I'll bite you, I'll chew you
Yum yum yum yum yum.
I'll gulp you, I'll slurp you
Slip slop slippy slippy slop.Well, I'll eat you and you'll eat me
And I'll eat you and you'll eat me
Sody pop, ice cream, sugar in my tea
Ha ha ha ha 1, 2, 3,
Ho ho ho ho hee hee hee.
And I'm a-gonna eat you up.
I'm a-gonna drink you down.I like you, I love you
Yum yum yum yum yum.
I smell you, I taste you
Slip slop slippy slippy slop.Well, I'll eat you and you'll eat me
And I'll eat you and you'll eat me
Sody pop, ice cream, sugar in my tea
1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2, 3.
Ho ho ho hee hee hee,
And I'm a-gonna eat you up.
And I'm a-gonna drink you down.I touch you, I feel you
Yum yum yum yum yum.
I pat you, I rub you
Slip slop slippy slippy slop.Well, I'll eat you and you'll eat me
And I'll eat you and you'll eat me
Sody pop, ice cream, sugar in my tea
1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2, 3.
Ho ho ho ha ha hee,
And I'm a-gonna eat you up.
I'm a-gonna drink you down.
I'm gonna eat you up.
I'm gonna drink you down. 

I'll Write And I'll Draw
I'll write and I'll draw and I'll spell you a word,
Big "A" and a little "A" and a middle size "A"
I'll make you a number, two six and one:
And I'll scramble 'em around so you can see them run.Take my pencil, crayon, and brush,
Big "B" and a little "B" and a new kind of "B";
I'll spell ten kitty-cats up in a tree,
And I'll squish 'em around so you can see.Write, write, write, and scribble and scrap,
Big "C" and a little "C" and a middle size "C";
Write my mommy and write my dad
Prettiest letter I ever did read.Splish splash, splish splash, chicky my chalk,
Mama "D", Papa "D" and a little baby "D";
Double one, double two, double "X", "Y", "Z",
Red, blue, and yellow, and a brown-eyed green.I dibble, I dabble, I doodle, I write,
Grandma "E" and Grandpa "E" and a freckle-faced "D";
Everybody climbin' a green-leafed tree,
The funniest people I ever did see.I'll write and I'll draw and I'll spell you a word
Big "A" and a little "A" and a middle size "A"
I'll make you a number, two six and one:
And I'll scramble 'em around and make 'em run.Take my pencil, crayon, and brush,
Big "B" and a little "B" and a new kind of "B";
I'll spell ten kitty-cats up in a tree,
And squish 'em around so you can see.Write, write, write, write, scribble and scrap,
Big "C" and a little "C" and a middle size "C";
Write my mommy and write my dad
The prettiest letter I ever did see. 

I'm Out To Get
I’m out to get your greenback dollar
I’m out to get your silver change
I’m out to get your long black limo
You kept me down on my knees too long.Now my daddy before me worked like I work
He was worked to death forty years or so
My mammy she died from grieving over him
How old she was I never did know.I’m out to get your greenback dollar
I’m out to get your silver change
I’m out to get your long black limo
You kept me down on my knees too long.Now the building you own you won at gambling
On dice and horses and ticker-tape machines
But that’s no sign that you are smarter that I am
I’m going to show you just what I mean.I’m out to get your easy money
I’m out to get my share of your gold
I’m out to get my whiskey and women
I’m going to get back my life you stole.We went to the judge and I talked with the tenants
We told him we had no hot water in the sink
He spent a half and hour upon his bench there
To tell us what a fine reputation our landlord’s got.But I’m out to get your long green tender
I’m out to get your round town car
I’m out to fight and win a good job and wages
And a six room twin bed flat with a built in bar.We told that judge how you played the horses
How you won this apartment building here
How you took our money and headed to Florida
To lay in the sun with women while we freeze here.So, I’m out to get your excess bacon
I’m out to get my cut from you
I’m going to walk and talk and tell all my neighbors
How they ought to talk right up for their cut too.It won’t be with no gun nor gambling wheel sir
That I will use to relieve you of your till
It will be in a nice friendly way with all my neighbors
Smelling and barking brother up and down your hill.And you can’t hide along no oceans
And you can’t hide in no desert for long
We’re out to get back every penny that you won gambling
Because we can’t live, landlord, on a race horse song. 

I'm Shipping Up To Boston
I'm sailor peg
And I've lost my leg
A climbing up the topsails
I've lost my legI'm shipping up to Boston
Shipping off to Boston
Shipping out to Boston
To find my wooden leg 

I've Got To Know
I've got to know, yes, I've got to know, friend;
Hungry lips ask me wherever I go!
Comrades and friends all falling around me
I've got to know, yes, I've got to know.Why do your war boats ride on my waters?
Why do your death bombs fall from my skies?
Why do you burn my farm and my town down?
I've got to know, friend, I've got to know!What makes your boats haul death to my people?
Nitro blockbusters, big cannons and guns?
Why doesn't your ship bring food and some clothing?
I've sure got to know, folks, I've sure got to know!Why can't my two hands get a good pay job?
I can still plow, plant, I can still sow!
Why did your lawbook chase me off my good land?
I'd sure like to know, friend, I've just got to know!What good work did you do, sir, I'd like to ask you,
To give you my money right out of my hands?
I built your big house here to hide from my people,
Why you crave to hide so, I'd love to know!You keep me in jail and you lock me in prison,
Your hospital's jammed and your crazyhouse full,
What made your cop kill my trade union worker?
You'll hafta talk plain 'cause I sure have to know!Why can't I get work and cash my big paycheck?
Why can't I buy things in your place and your store?
Why do you close my plant down and starve all my buddies?
I'm asking you, sir, 'cause I've sure got to know! 

I Ain't Got No Home
I ain't got no home, I'm just a-roamin' 'round,
Just a wandrin' worker, I go from town to town.
And the police make it hard wherever I may go
And I ain't got no home in this world anymore.My brothers and my sisters are stranded on this road,
A hot and dusty road that a million feet have trod;
Rich man took my home and drove me from my door
And I ain't got no home in this world anymore.Was a-farmin' on the shares, and always I was poor;
My crops I lay into the banker's store.
My wife took down and died upon the cabin floor,
And I ain't got no home in this world anymore.I mined in your mines and I gathered in your corn
I been working, mister, since the day I was born
Now I worry all the time like I never did before
'Cause I ain't got no home in this world anymoreNow as I look around, it's mighty plain to see
This world is such a great and a funny place to be;
Oh, the gamblin' man is rich an' the workin' man is poor,
And I ain't got no home in this world anymore. 

I Ain't Got Nobody
I ain't got nobody, ain't nobody got me,
I'm just like a little apple hangin' on a tree.
Don't nobody want me I can plainly see,
I ain't got nobody and ain't nobody got me.I ain't got nobody, ain't nobody got me,
I'm just like a chunk of wood floatin' on the sea.
Don't nobody want me I can plainly see,
I ain't got nobody and ain't nobody got me. 

I Don't Feel At Home on the Bowery No More
 

I Guess I Planted
I guess I planted some long lonesome seed of a song
Way down inside me long ago
And now I can't remember when it was
But it joined up with the rest of them and grows
It's such a little song it don't compare
With all your obig ones you hear everywhere
But when it dawns away in the back of your mind
The big ones are made up of the little kindUnion song. Union battled.
All added up. Won us all what we got now.I can't even start to look around me here
Without hearing this song
And seeing all of us first separated
Hurt, apart, and afraid
And hungry for the union
And so we kept on
Singing and working, fighting till we got it.
And this is the big union song I guess I hear.We fought there at your place
We fought there on your ship
And I guess if you missed out on the fight for our union
You missed out on one awful big step
Us people took. 

I Hear You Sing Again
If I could only hear my mother sing again
If I could close my eyes and hear your voice as then
All the friends and family
would sing along with me,
and set your spirit free

In my heart I hear you sing again
Every note as natural as then
and when I sing those songs
for family and friends,
in my heart I hear you sing again

I know the troubled times that turned your hair to grey
And all the tears and sorrows followed to your grave
But deep within the heart of hunger,
there were always melodies
passed from you and me

In my heart I hear you sing again
Every note as natural as then
and when I sing those songs
for family and friends,
in my heart I hear you sing again

And it's a long, long road I've come
since my mother's songs were heard
But the child I can't outrun
still hangs on every word

In my heart I hear you sing again
Every note as natural as then
and when I sing those songs
for family and friends,
in my heart I hear you sing again
In my heart I hear your voice again 

I Heard A Man Talking
I heard a man talking last night and he said
I could actually make more money when the depression was on.
And a lady laughed at him and said
Oh you couldn't either
How could you
And the man told her
Yes
I could
I made more because I could steal more. Now a days this damn war makes it awful hard to steal and besides, I don't know, I just don't enjoy stealing like I once did.
And a scared look was on his face and he looked all around, up and down the street and then he said
That's it.
That's what I mean.
When I look around all over the town
and see
all these pictures
pictures of
hungry kids looking at you
pictures of hungry soldiers needing a doughnut or a cup of coffee
I just feel like I don't want to steal no more.
Until after
this damn war is over.
And I heard the lady say,
You look like a pretty good guy to me.
How can it happen that
You would want to steal
Damned if I know
Nowadays
But I used to like it. I just naturally
got a kick out of stealing
I stole stuff
Because the rest of them was stealing stuff off of me.And she pulled a red fire on the end of her cigarette
And she said
It's been very few green dollars that I've lifted off from men
Why
How many is the wallet they dropped onto my floor
And
Money fell loose all over my place
I found out, we'll say,
That if you was - well - if I was to meet you right here on the street
and give you back your wallet
with all your papers and cards and pictures and stuff in itand your money in it too
Twenty or thirty bucks
In it
Not even touched
Well
You'd like me for that wouldn't you?And he said
Sure
Sure I would.And she kept on
And said
Why would you like me?
It would be because you thought more of your pictures and cards and
Things
Than you did of the money
And he shook his head and said yes, and told her
a fellow just don't forget something like that with a snap of his finger
And she said,
And green as they make 'em but you still got a little speck of brains or something like brains
Rattling around inside of your headHow dumb are you sister
How thick is your block
He asked her
There aint a dry bitch in this town no more ignorant than you are
How the hell come you to say how dumb I am?Youre dumb because youre here with me
That's how I know your dumbYou hadn't ought to be missing out on your sleep
You gotta hell of a hard days work ahead of you tomorrow
So
What in the hell do you want to suck around after me for?You teach me a lot of stuff
He told her
You always do
You aint nothing fancy
Or nothing on a stick
But
I don't know - I always feel like you know a dang sight more
Than you act like
And she said
Well
You're still a damn fool
For being with a damn fool.
Just because somebody is a damn fool
He said
And somebody else is with them
It don't
Always mean
That both of them are damn fools
And she said
And whose work
Whose hard earned money was it we blowed?
Yours
Your own.
Gone. Wasted.
Drunk down. Pissed out. Then drunk down. Pissed out. Cold going in. Hot coming out.You know good and well you don't really give a particular good god damn
About me.
So he said,
No
No I don't
Not this long time stuff
Not in a way like two sweeties about to get married
Not no little love next full of baby talk
No little cottage with a rose bush and a gate
But you see I'm not ever ready to think about that stuff
Right now
Anyhow
So I like to spend my time in a lot of crazy ways
Just to learn
About the world
People
Who they are
Where they are
What they are and what they thinkAnd while he was talking she walked up the street and he walked along behind her a few steps. 

I Just Want To Sing Your Name
Oh Sacco Sacco
Oh Nicola Sacco
Oh Sacco Sacco
I just want to sing your name.
Sacco Sacco Sacco Sacco Sacco, Oh Sacco
Nicola Sacco Sacco
I just want to sing your name.Oh Rosie Rosie
Oh Miz Rosie Sacco
Oh Rosie Rosie
I just want to sing your name.I never did see you, see you
I never did get to meet you
I just heard your story, story
And I just want to sing your name.Hey hey Bart Vanzetti
Hey hey Bart Vanzetti
You made speeches for the workers, workersWell, I just want to sing your name.Hey Judge Webster Thayer
Ho ho Judge Webster Thayer
Hey hey old Judge Webster Thayer
I don't want want to sing your name.Bart Vanzetti and Nicola Sacco
Bart Vanzetti and Nicola Sacco
Come here looking for the land of freedom
I just want to sing your name.Vanzetti sold fish around the Plymouth Harbor
Sacco was a shoe factory's best shoe -cutter
All of my sons and all f my daughters
They are gonna help me sing your name.Oh Sacco Saco
Hey Bart Vanzetti
Your wife and kids and all your family
I just want to sing your nameOh Sacco, Vanzetti
Hey Sacco, Vanzetti
Hey Nicola Sacco, Bart Vanzetti
I just want to sing your name. © Copyright by Woody Guthrie Publications, Inc.

I Like To Stay Home With Daddy
My mama she leaves in the morning
Before the sky gets light
I never get to see her
When the sun is shining bright
She runs to catch the trolley
And she works in a factory place
But I like to stay home with daddy
'Cause he never does wash my face.I eat any old thing I like to eat
At any old time I please
Bananas apples oranges and pork and beans
My daddy listens to the radio
And he hears the horses race
Yes, I like to stay home with daddy
'Cause he never does wash my face.I bring in the kids from all around
And we fight with clay and mud
We roll and scream and rip and tear
Until we all get tired
Daddy is reading a magazine
He don't want to lose his place
So I like to stay home with daddy
'Cause he never does wash my face.I like to stay home with you, daddy
'Cause you never do wash my face
You let me do whatever I please
And I snort and run and race
Mama will never know it
'Cause she never comes on the place
Oh I like to stay home with daddy
'Cause he never does wash my face. 

I Ride An Old Paint
Ride around, little dogie, ride around them slow,
They're fiery and snuffy and raring to go.
Ride around, little dogie, ride around them slow,
Fiery and snuffy and raring to go.Old Bill Jones had a daughter and a son
Son went to college and the daughter went wrong
His wife got killed in a free-for-all fight
But still he keeps singing from morning to nightRide around, little dogies, ride around them slow,
Fiery and snuffy and raring to go.I'll ride the old paint, lead the old Dan
go to Montana to throw the hoolian,
I'll feed 'em in the coulees, water in the draw
Tails are all matted, their backs are all raw.Ride around, little dogie, ride around them slow,
Fiery and snuffy and raring to go.I worked in the town, I worked on the farm
All I got to show was just this muscle in my arm
Blisters on my feet, callus on my hand
Goin' to Montana to throw the hoolianRide around, little dogie, ride around them slow,
Fiery and snuffy and raring to go. 

I Take My Penny
Oh, I take my penny,
And I go to the store,
And when I got back,
I was tired and sore.Well, why am I tired?
And why am I sore?
Cause I didn’t get a thing,
That I went there for.I take my penny to the barber,
And I get my hair cut,
When I get back home,
It’s all tangled up,
Well, if you wanta know
Just how I feel,
I feel like a pulling
On a pussy cat’s tail.My Mommy and my Daddy,
Wrote down my song,
So, if it sounds awful funny,
If it sounds all wrong,
I sung it nice and pretty
When I made it up
But they wrote it down crooked
And it’s all scrabbled up. 

I Want My Milk (I Want It Now)
I want my milk and I want it now.
I want my milk and I want it now.
My breast and well, I want my bottle both
And I want my milk and I want it now.I want my bath and I want it now.
I want my bath and I want it now.
Let it rain, let it pour, let me swim, let me float
I want my bath and I want it now.I want my cod liver oil and I want it now
I want my cod liver oil and I want it now
I'll kick and I'll squall til you bring me my oil
I want my cod liver oil and I want it nowI want my vitamin drops and I want 'em now.
I want my vitamin drops and I want 'em now.
Skinny man and a fat man and a great big bubble gum man
I want my vitamin drop and I want it now.I want my rattle and I want it now.
I want my rattle and I want it now.
Want my rattle and my rattle skattle skattle
I want my rattle and I want it now.I want my nipple and I want it now.
I want my nipple and I want it now.
Big nipple, nipple, little nipples, and middle-sized nipples and all kind of nipples
And I want my nipple and I want it now.I want my bottle and I want it now.
I want my bottle and I want it now.
I want my bottle and I want my bottle now.
I said I want my bottle and I want it now. 

I Was A Goner
I was a goner in the last degree
Till I decided
That I had to break way
Had to untie my choke rope
And sneak back to you free
‘Cause I was a goner
In the last degree.I was a goner
Of the gonest kind
Gone in my body
Gone in my mind
Till I saw one way how I
Could help your rebellion.
Sire, I’ve been a goner
Of the gonest kind.I was a goner of the gonest kind.
I was a goner of the gonest kind.I was a goner of the gonest kind
Checked in to go ten million times;
Surrendered, give up, cashed in
Or tried –
But I traveled right back
From your gone, goneland tonight.To tell you, lost goner, to rest y’r mind
To let you know that you never find
No way to cheat your
Job at hand
Or battle to fight ta make peace on land. 

I Was Born
I was born at Half Past 12, almost One in the morning;
I was born at Half Past One, almost Two in the morning.
Now my birthday comes again and I don't know how old I am;
Half past One or Two or Three, almost 4 in the morning.I was born at Half Past Four, almost 5 in the morning;
I was born at Half Past Six, almost 7 in the morning;
How old am I, you ask of me? One year younger than I used to be;
Half Past 7, Half Past 8, Half Past Nine in the morning.I was born at Half Past Nine, almost Ten in the morning;
I was born at 1/2 past Ten, almost 'Leven in the morning;
Today my age is Tweedle and 'twee I'm prettier than I used to be;
Half Past 'Leven, Half Past 'Leven, almost 12 in the morning. 

Ida Red
Down the river and across the creek
Don't get a letter but once a week.
Down the river and across the creek
Don't get a letter but once a week.: Ida Red, Ida Red,
Can't make a living for Ida Red
Ida Red, Ida Red,
Can't make a living for Ida RedIda Red, big and plump
Eighty-four inches around the rump
Ida Red, big and plump
Eighty-four inches around the rumpIda Red jumped the fence
I ain't seen my Ida since
Ida Red jumped the fence
I ain't seen my Ida sinceHurry up boy and on you go
Circle four in the middle of the floor
Maybe the last time, I don't know
Hurry up lord, don't go slowBuy me a horse, buy me a sled
Take me riding, Ida Red
Buy me a horse, buy me a sled
Take me riding, Ida Red 

If I Was Everything On Earth
If I was a merchant rich enough
I tell you what I'd do
I'd bawl out all my customers
And fire the hired help, too.If I had a bank on Wall Street
I'd fill it up with gold
And dump it in the ocean
And we'd all go dig some more.If I was king of England
I'd make them talk to me
'Stead of actin' high falootin
Like some picture shows you see.I'd turn out all the prisoners
And put in all the rich
But it don't look my cowboy life
Will ever come to such.If I was president Roosevelt
I'd make the groceries free
I'd give away new Stetson hats
And let the whiskey be.I'd pass out suits of clothing
At least three times a week
And shoot the first big Oil Man
That killed the fishing creek.If I owned all of Hollywood
I'd hire each living soul
To be a great big movie star
And give 'em homes of gold.And not one single nickel will
This nation e'er be worth
Until you make a guy like me
'Bout everything on earth. 

Ilsa Koch
I’m here in Buchenwald.
My number’s on my skin.
Old Ilsa Koch is here.
The prisoners walk the grounds.
The hounds have killed a girl.
The guards have shot a man.
Some more have starved to death.
Here comes the prisoner’s car.
They dump them in the pen.
They load them down the schute.
The trooper cracks their skulls.
He steals their teeth of gold.
He shoves them on the belt.
He swings that furnace door.
He slides their corpses in.
I see the chimney smoke.
I see their ashes hauled.
I see their bones in piles.
Lamp shades are made from skins.
I’m choking on the smoke.
The stink is killing me.
Old Ilsy Koch was jailed.
Old Ilsy Koch went free.
I’ve got to hush my song.
Here comes the super man.
I’ll see you later on.
I’ve got to duck and run. 

Indian Corn Song
I been a restin’.
Ain't been a workin’
I been seetin' down.
I been a thinkin’
How the rich man runs the land.
How he promised
He would help us,
If we put him
Into office
How he turned his promises around.Big dictators.
Speculators
Senators
And Agitators,
They tell what all they gonna do,
When they get
Into their office,
See what they can
Take off of us,
Take from me and take from you.Finance-man
He frisk us, frisk us
Lawyer man,
He won't protect us,
Where O where is a honest man
Barber-man, he
Clip your whiskers
Money-man, he
Clip your sister.
Banker man, he take your land.‘Cross the Country
I been lookin',
Seldom see
Anybody workin'
Is the work of the world all done
Come a big rain,
Come big thunder,
Come big crop
Plow crop under,
Indians never waste a one.Can’t beat finance,
Man and weather,
Workin’ man got to
Got together,
Have a big meetin' down in town
Workin’-man gotta
Take the groceries
Feed the widows,
Feed the orphins.
Pass the groceries all around*This song was recorded on the "Woody Guthrie Singles" album recorded by Blackfire. This album is no longer available. 

Ingrid Bergman
Ingrid Bergman, Ingrid Bergman,
Let´s go make a picture
On the island of Stromboli, Ingrid BergmanIngrid Bergman, you´re so perty,
You´d make any mountain quiver
You´d make my fire fly from the crater
Ingrid BergmanThis old mountain it´s been waiting
All ist life for you to work it
For your hand to touch the hardrock,
Ingrid Bergman, Ingrid BergmanIf you´ll walk across my camera,
I will flash the world your story,
I will pay you more than money, Ingrid BergmanNot by pennies dimes nor quarters,
But with happy sons and daughters,
And they´ll sing around Stromboli,
Ingrid Bergman 

It Takes A Married Man
Well you single boys can ramble, you single boys can roam,
but it takes a married man, boys, to sing a worried song.It was once I used to ramble, and I sung a single song,
But it's now that I am married, boys, I had to change my tune.I was rough and I was rowdy when I led a single life
But I got to take it easy since I got myself a wife.I have got six little children to feed and educate
And it's really got me thinking, not a nickel on the place.I am very happy married and I got to save my dough
we have got six children and expecting several more,Yes we got six children, and expecting several more
Kids run out like cattle when you open up the door.Yes you single boys can ramble and can lead a rowdy life
But you'll have to take it easy when you get yourself a wifeYou will have a flock of children and have others coming on
It takes a married man, boys, to sing a worried song.:
I'm a married man, I sing a worried song. 

Jackhammer Blues
I've got those jackhammer blues, I've been trippin' on a hard rock pile,
I've got the jackhammer blues, I've been trippin' on a block o'slag,
I can hear my hammer trippin' while I'm tryin' to get some sleep at night.Jackhammer, jackhammer eatin' that rock away;
Look at my jackhammer chompin' that rock away;
Takes fourteen cranes and dumptrucks just to follow me around a day.I'm a jackhammer man, I love to hear that hard bit ring;
Brrroom, brrroom, brrroom, brrroom, I love to hear that hard bingobling;
I've been down this old road and I'll build it back new again.Jackhammer jars my shoulders, jackhammer jars my head;
Jackhammer jars my shoulders, jackhammer shivers my head;
I shake and shimmy all night long when I put my little self to bed.My jackhammer clatters, it bucks, it jumps, it jars;
My jackhammer clatters, it bucks, it jumps, it jars;
My wife kicked me out o'bed, I got to sleep out here under the stars.I kept on drilling my bit, folks, kept a-hammering right on down your street;
I kept on drilling my bit, folks, kept a-hammering right on down your street;
Found a hard steel woman whose shakin' just can't be beat.I've got a bit of money saved up workin' on a jackhammer line;
I've got a bit of money saved up workin' on a jackhammer line;
I slide all my money down to the mailbox, shoot it to that women o' mine. 

Jackhammer John
Jackhammer John was a jackhammer man,
Born with a jackhammer in his hand.
Lord, Lord And he had them jackhammer blues.
I got them jackhammer blues.I built your roads and buildings too,
And I'm gonna build a damn or two.
Lord, Lord, well I had them jackhammer blues.
I got them jackhammer blues.I was borned in Portland town,
Built every port from Alasky down;
Lord, Lord, well I got them jackhammer blues.
I got them jackhammer blues.Built your bridges, dug your mines,
Been in jail a thousand times.
Lord, Lord, well I got them jackhammer blues.
I got them jackhammer blues.Jackhammer, jackhammer, where ya been?
Been out a-chasin' them gals again;
Lord, Lord, well I got them jackhammer blues.
I got them jackhammer blues.Jackhammer man from a jackhammer town,
I can hammer till the sun goes down,
Lord, Lord, well I got them jackhammer blues.
I got them jackhammer blues.I hammered on the boulder, hammered on the butte,
Columbia River on a five-mile chute;
Lord, Lord, well I got them jackhammer blues.
I got them jackhammer blues.Workin' on the Bonneville, hammered all night
A-tryin' to bring the people some electric light,
Lord, Lord, well I got them jackhammer blues.
I got them jackhammer blues.I hammered on Bonneville, Coulee too,
Always broke when my job was through,
Lord, Lord, well I got them jackhammer blues.
I got them jackhammer blues.I hammered on the river from sun to sun,
Fifteen million salmon run;
Lord, Lord, well I got them jackhammer blues.
I got them jackhammer blues.I hammered in the rain, I hammered in the dust,
I hammered in the best and I hammered in the worst;
Lord, Lord, well I got them jackhammer blues.
I got them jackhammer blues.I got a jackhammer gal just as sweet as pie,
And I'm a-gonna hammer till the day I die,
Lord, Lord, well I got them jackhammer blues.
I got them jackhammer blues. 

Jailcell Blues
Mailman walkin by my cell
Mailman walkin by my cell
It’s when you don’t bring me no news
That’s the time when I sing my jailcell blues
That’s the time when I sing, that’s the time when I sing my jailcell blues.When you walk y’r mailpouch
When you walk y’r mailpouch
By me with not one word fr’m you
That’s the time that I’ll weep my jailcell blues
That’s the time that I’ll weep my jailcell blues.Little leather bag goes by me
Little leather bag goes by me
Not one little peep from you
Only time I cry my jailcell blues
Only time I cry my jailcell blues. 

Jakewalk Blues
Night drink likkor, night drink rum,
I drink Lemonade and Buttermilk some,
Here’s my drink which I always choose,
I’m a Jake Walk Daddy with the Jake Walk Blues.I got me a Mama down in New Orleans
She’s long and tall, she’s keen I mean;
I lost my woman, I’m a singing the Blues,
I’m a Jake Walk Daddy with the Jake Walk Blues.I caint eat and I caint talk,
Been drinking Jake and now I caint walk,
Lost my clothes and working shoes
I’m a Jake Walk Daddy with the Jake Walk Blues.Down in Texas there is a moonshine
To make a ginger, make you paralyzed
I won’t let that troubled mind
I’m a Jake Walk Daddy with the Jake Walk Blues.You don’t want me, gimme your left hand
Gonna take a jug to my buried land
Legs are stiff like a new pair of shoes
I’m a Jake Walk Daddy with the Jake Walk Blues. 

Jarama Valley
There's a valley in Spain called Jarama
It's a place that we all know so well
It was there that we fought against the fascists
We saw a peaceful valley turn to hell

From this valley they say we are going
But don't hasten to bid us adieu
Even though we lost the battle at Jarama
We'll set this valley free before we're through

We were men of the Lincoln Battalion
We're proud of the fight that we made
We know that you people of the valley
Will remember our Lincoln Brigade

From this valley they say we are going
But don't hasten to bid us adieu
Even though we lost the battle at Jarama
We'll set this valley free before we're through

You will never find peace with these fascists
You will never find friends such as we
So remember that valley of Jarama
And the people that'll set that valley free

From this valley they say that we are going
But don't hasten to bid us adieu
Even though we lost the battle at Jarama
We'll set this valley free before we're through

All this world is like this valley called Jarama
So green and so bright and so fair
No fascists can dwell in our valley
Nor breathe in our new freedom's air 

From this valley they say we are going
But don't hasten to bid us adieu
Even though we lost the battle at Jarama
We'll set this valley free before we're through  

Jesse James
Just about the worst gun battle ever out on the western plains
When me and a bunch of cowboys went running with Jesse James
Come a cow-cow yicky, come a cow-cow yicky, yicky yea.  Run into Jesse James, boys, run into Jesse James
The guns went off like thunder and the bullets fell like rain
Come a cow-cow yicky, come a cow-cow yicky, yicky yea.  The guns went off like lightning and the bullets fell like hail
Was on our way to Denver on the old Dodge City trail
Come a cow-cow yicky, come a cow-cow yicky, yicky yea.  And in that bloody battle with Frank and Jesse James
My partners fell around me with bullets in their brains
Come a cow-cow yicky, come a cow-cow yicky, yicky yea.  Frank and Jesse James, boys, they robbed that midnight mail
The bank and express station and broke the county jail
Come a cow-cow yicky, come a cow-cow yicky, yicky yea.  If you're afraid to fight, boys, if you're afraid to die
You'd better stay out of the Badlands where the red hot bullets fly
Come a cow-cow yicky, come a cow-cow yicky, yicky yea.  If you're afraid of dying, if you're afraid of death
You'd better stay at home, boys, stay out of Jesse's path
Come a cow-cow yicky, come a cow-cow yicky, yicky yea.  
Come a cow-cow yicky, come a cow-cow yicky, yicky yea.   

Jesus Christ
Jesus Christ was a man who traveled through the land
A hard-working man and brave
He said to the rich, "Give your money to the poor,"
But they laid Jesus Christ in His grave:
Jesus was a man, a carpenter by hand
His followers true and brave
One dirty little coward called Judas Iscariot
Has laid Jesus Christ in His GraveHe went to the preacher, He went to the sheriff
He told them all the same
"Sell all of your jewelry and give it to the poor,"
And they laid Jesus Christ in His grave.When Jesus come to town, all the working folks around
Believed what he did say
But the bankers and the preachers, they nailed Him on the cross,
And they laid Jesus Christ in his grave.And the people held their breath when they heard about his death
Everybody wondered why
It was the big landlord and the soldiers that they hired
To nail Jesus Christ in the skyThis song was written in New York City
Of rich man, preacher, and slave
If Jesus was to preach what He preached in Galilee,
They would lay poor Jesus in His grave. 

Jig Along Home
Well, I went to the dance and the animals come,
Jaybird danced with horse-shoes on.
Grasshopper danced till he fell on the floor
Jig along, jig along, jig along home.:
Jig jiga jig jiga jig along home,
Jig jiga jig jiga jig along home.
Jig along, jig along, jig along home,
Jig jiga jig jiga jig along home.Centipede danced with the big giraffe,
Spider danced with the rattlesnake,
Elephant danced with the scorpio,
Jig along, jig along, jig along home.Fishing worm done the fishing reel,
Lobster danced on the peacock’s tail,
Baboon danced with the rising moon,
Jig along, jig along, jig along home.And the rooster cut his weevily wheat,
The catfish tromped the cuckoo’s feet,
The ostrich stomped with the kangaroo,
Jig along, jig along, jig along home.Mama rat took off her hat,
Shook the house with the old tom cat,
The alligator beat his tail on the drum,
Jig along, jig along, jig along home.The boards did rattle and the house did shake,
The clouds did laugh and the world did quake,
New moon rattled some silver spoons,
Jig along, jig along, jig along home.The nails flew loose and the floors broke down,
Everybody danced around and around,
The house come down and the crowd went home,
Jig along, jig along, jig along home. 

Jiggy Jiggy Bum
I walked out on a sagebrush hill,
Thought I'd find me a hog to kill.
I heard a big squeal and up jumped one,
I pulled my trigger and drug him home.


Jiggy, jiggy, bum, bum
Hey piggy, run, run.
Jiggy, jiggy, bum, bum
And a hey piggy, run.

Tied my rope around his feet,
Swung him up and the meal did bleed.
Middle of the night the gray wolf come
Take his wife and family some.



Grab my gun and run to the hill,
Standing up around the old wind mill.
I says, "Gray wolf, if you come to steal,
I'll slit your belly and hang you by the heels."

"Old Mr. Ranchman," the gray wolf said,
"My eleven little babies are starving dead."
I said, "Gray wolf, I'm troubled myself,
'Cause I've got a wife and children twelve."

And the old gray wolf made the big run,
Made me jump and I dropped my gun.
Took my gun and throwed it in the well,
Durn the old gray wolf's soul to hell.

Well, the old gray wolf run back to the mill
Seen my hog a-hanging by his heels.
Filled up his belly from the puddle of blood,
Then he grabbed my hog and struck for home.Well I tore for my house and I woke my kids,
Told my wife what the gray wolf did.
And the old lady hollered and the kids they yelled.
They lit out over the gray wolf's trail.

'Fore daylight we trailed him home
In a great big cave where the batses roam.
Sent my wife and children in.
I waited outside in the northern wind.First out flew the gray wolf's nose,
Then out flew its Sunday clothes.
Then out sailed its hair and hide,
And then out come my kids and wife.Everybody had a sandwich in his hand,
Every girl had a slice of Virginia ham.
My wife had a hambone slick and long.
We slipped and slid the whole road home.Well we got home, jumped in bed,
Pulled the covers over our head,
We laughed at that wolf and licked the bone,
And this is the last of wild hog's song.

Jinga Ling
I'll tellya somethin thats hard ta learn
Singa jinga linga jinga linga jinnnnng
A worried fire wont never burn
Singa jinga linga jinga linga jinnnnng.Jinga ling, jinga ling,
Singa jinga linga jinga linga jing
Singa jing, jinga ling,
Singa jinga linga jinga linga jinnnnng.Heres a little news that just cant wait
Singa jinga linga jinga linga jinnng
Y'd better tittle now than ta tryta tittle later
Singa jinga linga jinga linga jinnnnng.Good advice is the only thing
Singa jinga linga jinga linga jing
Nobody in this world can use
Singajinga linga linga linga jinnnnng.Its one more word jus' fore I go
Singa jinga linga jinga linga jinnnnng
I rutherd smoke here th'n hereaftore
Singa jinga linga jinga linga jinnnnng.This world runs full of robbin men
Singa jinga linga jinga linga jinnnnng
They'll rob with a gun or a fountain pen
Singa jinga linga jinga linga jinnnnng.I come fromma land of free an' brave
Singa jinga linga jinga linga jinriming
The free's in jail an' th' brave in graves
Singa jinga linga jinga linga jinnnnng.

Joe DiMaggio Done It Again
Joe Deemaggyo done it again!
Joe Deemaggyo done it again!
Clackin’ that bat, Gone with the wind!
Joe Deemaggyo’s done it again.Some folks thot Big Joe was done!
Some jus figgered Joe was gone!
Steps to the platter with a great big grin,
Joe Deemaggyo’s done it again!I’ma gonna tele ya jist th’ way I feel;
Man cain’t run without his heel;
Watch that raggypill split the wind!
Joe Deemaggyo’s done it again!All three fielders jumped their best;
Tryin’ ta climb that highboard fence;
They all growed whiskers on their chins!
Joe Deemaggyo’s done it again!Up along them clouds where the eagle roams;
Joe cracked that ball to whine and moaann;
His buddies laugh as they trot on in,
Joe Deemaggyo’s done it again!Grandmaw’s home by the radio
On the telleyevizzion awatchin’ Joe,
She jerks the beard offa grandpaw’s chin;
Joe Deemaggyo’s done it again!The puppydog barked at the pooseye kat;
How does it look from where you set?
Looks like a cyclone slidin’ in,
Joe Deemaggyo’s done it again! 

Johnny Hart
Johnny Hart, he was a desperate little man
hell raisin' ran a pistol every day
cut down a man on a free state line
should've seen Johnny Hart gettin' away, oh Lord,
see Johnny Hart gettin' awayJohnny Hart made a run for the free state line
there he thought he'd be free
man came walkin' and grabbed him by the arm
he said, "Johnny come along with me, ol' boy,
Johnny come along with me"Johnny Hart, he wrote his mom and dad
sayin, come here and go my bail
but money won't go his murder charge
they lay Johnny Hart back in jail, oh Lord
they lay Johnny Hart back in jailNow the first one to visit Johnny Hart in jail
was a girl with a rag on her head
said, "I never thought I'd see you in that jail,
I believe I'd rather see you dead, Johnny Hart,
I believe I'd rather see you dead"Now the next one to visit Johnny Hart in jail
was his lovely wife, she was so brave
said, "I'd rather see you in your windin' sheets
than see you on a long rattlin' chain, dear god,
see you on a long rattlin' chain"Johnny Hart he stood in his jail cell
and a tear ran down his eye
there'd been the death of many deadly sheriff
six gone and he's never told a lie, no Lord,
six gone and he's never told a lieWell I've run to the east, I've run to the west
I've run just as far as I can
If I ever get loose from this ball and chain
I'm gonna make it to the free state line, dear God,
make it to the free state lineYou've got guards to the east and guards to the west
You've got guards this whole world round
but before I'll be a slave I'll rot in your bed
You can take me to my hangin' ground, mister jail,
take me to my hangin' ground 

Jolly Banker, The
My name is Tom Cranker and I'm a jolly banker,
I'm a jolly banker, jolly banker am I.
I safeguard the farmers and widows and orphans,
Singin' I'm a jolly banker, jolly banker am I.When dust storms are sailing, and crops they are failing,
I'm a jolly banker, jolly banker am I.
I check up your shortage and bring down your mortgage,
Singin' I'm a jolly banker, jolly banker am I.When money you're needing, and mouths you are feeding,
I'm a jolly banker, jolly banker am I.
I'll plaster your home with a furniture loan,
Singin' I'm a jolly banker, jolly banker am I.If you show me you need it, I'll let you have credit,
I'm a jolly banker, jolly banker am I.
Just bring me back two for the one I lend you,
Singin' I'm jolly banker, jolly banker am I.When your car you're losin', and sadly your cruisin',
I'm a jolly banker, jolly banker am I.
I'll come and forclose, get your car and your clothes,
Singin' I'm jolly banker, jolly banker am I.When the bugs get your cotton, the times they are rotten,
I'm jolly banker, jolly banker am I.
I'll come down and help you, I'll rake you and scalp you,
Singin' I'm jolly banker, jolly banker am I.When the landlords abuse you, or sadly misuse you,
I'm jolly banker, jolly banker am I.
I'll send down the police chief to keep you from mischief,
Singin' I'm jolly banker, jolly banker am I. 

Just One More Time
Let me walk back in my vision
Down this old remembered road
Let me walk back past my trees and street
To this old friendly doorLet me see my people's faces
In my little old hometown
Let me see them one more time
Just one more timeLet me go here one more time
And one more time
Let me go here one more time
And one more timeLet me see you, let me hear you
Let me meet you, let me greet you
Let me go there one more time
And one more timeLet me see your city limits
Let me walk along your walk
Let me glance into your faces
Let me listen to you talkLet me stand around this corner
Where the boys meet all the girls
Let me stand here one more time
Just one more timeLet me go here one more time
And one more time
Let me go here one more time
And one more timeLet me see you, let me hear you
Let me meet you, let me greet you
Let me go there one more time
And one more timeLet me see you like I saw you
At your work there working hard
Let me see you sweeping, dusting
Tending flowers in your yardLet me see that flirty girly
That has always held my heart
Let me feel this one more time
And one more timeLet me go here one more time
And one more time
Let me go here one more time
And one more timeLet me see you, let me hear you
Let me meet you, let me greet you
Let me go there one more time
And one more timeLet me hold your hand and walk you
Down our boardwalk to our square
Let us talk our future over
Like we did when I was thereLet me hear your words as I heard
On our dark and stormy night
Let me hear them one more time
And one more timeLet me go here one more time
And one more time
Let me go here one more time
And one more timeLet me see you, let me hear you
Let me meet you, let me greet you
Let me go there one more time
And one more time 

Keep That Oil A'Rollin
You oil field workers, come and listen to me
I'm goin' to tell you a story about old John D.
That company union made a fool out of me.
That company union don't charge no dues
It leaves you a-singing them Rockefeller blues.
That company union made a fool out of me.Takes that good ole C.I.O., boys
To keep that oil a-rollin', rollin' over the sea.
Takes that good ole C.I.O., boys
To keep that oil a-rollin' over the sea.Drilling oil to beat Japan
But the company union don't give a damn.
That company union made a fool out of me.
The oil field workers and the NMU
Going to beat Hitler, and damn quick, too.
That company union made a fool out of me.Old Berlin to Tokyo
Tanks can't roll if the oil don't flow.
That company union made a fool out of me.
Canada to Mexico
They're joining up with the C.I.O.
That company union made a fool out of me.C.I.O. is the place for me
When this war is over, I want to be free
That company union made a fool out of me.
I'm a union man in a union war
It's a union land I'm a-fightin' for.
That company union made a fool out of me.*This song is available on the "Songs for Political Action" collection released by Bear Family Records, Disc 4, Track 8. 

King of My Love
I'll be the Queen of your heart, Dear
You'll be the King of my love
I'll deal through that whole deck to find you
And You'll wait for my time to come.

I've lived a lone life dear without you
I played a lone hand all the way;
I ached when I lost, I pretended to laugh;
But I felt more like crying these days.
Since you come and stood there beside me
And told me my best way to play
Your hand touched mine and the sunshine did shine
And we left that whole card house next day.

I'll be the Queen of your heart, Dear
You'll be the King of my love
I'll deal through that whole deck to find you
And You'll wait for my time to come.

Rough Jack didn't like you to help me
He would kill you if you left with me.
Jack's two forty fours drilled round that door
As we backed hand in hand to the street.
Jack turned his last slug on his own self
Pitched down on the sawdusty floor
That's why you're the King of my love now
That's why I trust cards nevermore.

I'll be the Queen of your heart, Dear
You'll be the King of my love
I'll deal through that whole deck to find you
And You'll wait for my time to come.

I tossed off my cardhouse costumery
I slipped on my sweet cotton dress
You're king of our house here my darling
No turn of a cardhand can wreck.
You're king of my big sunny smile now
You're king of my red rosy cheeks
I'm queen of this cradle that rocks here
No joker can steal me away.

I'll be the Queen of your heart, Dear
You'll be the King of my love
I'll deal through that whole deck to find you
And You'll wait for my time to come. 

Kissin' On
Now, I'm a givin' you kisses one, kisses one,
I'm a givin' you kisses one, kisses one,
I'm a givin' you kisses one, And it feels like so much fun
That'll just keep a kissin' on and kissin' on.Now, you're givin' me kisses two kisses two!
And, you're givin' me kisses two kisses two!
Honey I'm a givin' you kisses two;
I'll not stop till I get through!
And we'll just keep a kissin' on, and a kissin' on!Now, I'm a givin' you kisses three, kisses three!
And, I'm a givin' you kisses three, kisses three!
I'm a givin' you kisses three;
Makes me feel so brave and free,
That I'll just keep a kissin' on and a kissin' on!Now, I'm a givin' you kisses four, kisses four!
And, I'm a givin' you kisses four, kisses four!
While I'm a givin' you kisses four,
Makes me crave for more and more,
So, I'll just keep a kissin' on and a kissin' on!Now, I'm a givin' you kisses five and kisses five!
Yes, I'm givin' you kisses five and kisses five!
Kisses five and kisses five
Makes me glad that I'm alive,
So, let's both keep on a kissin' on and a kissin' on!Now, I'm a givin' you kisses six and kisses six!
Hey, I'm a givin' you kisses six and kisses six!
Six times and six times six;
I love the way your kisses mix;
And so, I'll just keep a kissin' on and a kissin' on!Now, you're givin' me kisses seven and kisses seven!
Sugar, you're givin' me kisses seven and kisses seven!
Seventy seven and 'leven times 'leven;
I've gotta new address in heaven!
Long's you just keep a kissin' on and a kissin' on!Now, I'm kissin' you kisses eight and kisses eight!
Yes, you're a kissin' me kisses eight and kisses eight!
Don't care if it's a getting' late;
Don't stop. don't quit, don't hezzytate;
Gotta, gotta, gotta keep a kissin' on and a kissin' on!Now, we're slidin' on a kisses nine and kisses nine,
Yes, we're glidin' on a kisses nine and kisses nine!
I feel so good and I feel so fine!
Like a monkey climbin' up a kissin' vine!
Kiss, kiss, kissy, kissy kissin' on and a kissin' on!Now, I'm a givin' you kisses ten and a kisses ten!
And, you're a givin' me kisses ten and a kisses ten!
Kissa' round the moon, and round the sun;
Kissa 'round this whole wide world again;
Kiss, kiss, kissy kiss, kissin' on and a kissin' on! 

Ladies' Auxiliary
Oh, the Ladies' Auxiliary
It's a good auxiliary.
'Bout the best auxiliary
That you ever did see.
If you need an auxiliary,
See the Ladies' Auxiliary.
It's the Ladies' Auxiliary. 

Left In This World Alone
 

Lindbergh
Mister Charlie Lindbergh, he flew to old Berlin,
Got him a big Iron Cross, and he flew right back again
To Washington, Washington. Mrs. Charlie Lindbergh, she come dressed in red,
Said: "I'd like to sleep in that pretty White House bed
In Washington, Washington."Lindy said to Annie: "We'll get there by and by,
But we'll have to split the bed up with Wheeler, Clark, and Nye 
In Washington, Washington."Hitler wrote to Lindy, said "Do your very worst." 
Lindy started an outfit that he called America First 
In Washington, Washington. All around the country, Lindbergh he did fly, 
Gasoline was paid for by Hoover, Clark, and Nye 
In Washington, Washington.Lindy said to Hoover: "We'll do the same as France:
Make a deal with Hitler, and then we'll get our chance."
In Washington, Washington. Then they had a meetin', and all the Firsters come,
Come on a walk and they come on a run,
In Washington, Washington. Yonder comes Father Coughlin, wearin' the silver chain,
Gas on his stomach and Hitler on the brain.
In Washington, Washington.Mr. John L. Lewis would sit and straddle a fence,
But his daughter signed with Lindbergh, and we ain't seen her since
In Washington, Washington.Hitler said to Lindy: "Stall 'em all you can, 
Gonna bomb Pearl Harbor with the help of old Japan."
In Washington, Washington.Then on a December mornin', the bombs come from Japan,
Wake Island and Pearl Harbor, kill fifteen hundred men.
In Washington, WashingtonNow Lindy tried to join the army, but they wouldn't let him in,
Afraid he'd sell to Hitler a few more million men.
In Washington, Washington So I'm a-gonna tell you people, if Hitler's gonna be beat,
The common workin' people has got to take the seat
In Washington, Washington.And I'm gonna tell you workers, 'fore you cash in your checks:
They say "America First," but they mean "America Next!"
In Washington, Washington. 

Listening To The Wind That Blows
There’s a girl as she sleeping
Sleeping in her sweet repose
I’m her broken hearted sweetheart
Listening to that wind that blows.When my good friends gather around me
Where my graveyard flowers grow
In my grave I be there sleeping
Listening to that wind that blows.:
Blow, wind, blow, long low and lonesome
Blow, wind, blow, where no heart knows,
I’m your lonesome hearted listener
Listening to that lonesome wind that blows.On those ocean sands I wandered
Where those whitecap breakers roll
I walked along the beach at midnight
Listening to that wind that blows.In this great and crowded city
Where the silver dollar flows
Many’s the broken hearted sweetheart
Listening to that wind that blows.I dreampt last night we lay together
Arm in arm we took a stroll
I woke up and the sky was cloudy
Listening to that wind that blows.Has it come your time to leave me?
Has it come your time to go?
Always, dear, I’ll be here waiting,
Listening to that wind that blows. 

Little Bird
 

Little Black Train
There's a little black train a-comin'
Comin' down the track;
You gotta ride that little black train,
But it ain't a gonna bring you back.You may be a bar-room gambler
And cheat your way through life;
You can't cheat that little black train
Or beat this final ride.You silken bar-room ladies,
Dressed in your worldly pride;
You've gotta ride that little black train
That's comin' in the night.Your million dollar fortune,
Your mansion glittering white;
You can't take it with you
When the train moves in the night.Get ready for your savior,
Anf fix your business right;
You've got to ride that little black train
That makes this final ride.You silken bar-room ladies,
Dressed in your worldly pride;
You've gotta ride that little black train
That's comin' in the night.You may be a bar-room gambler
And cheat your way through life;
You can't cheat that little black train
Or beat this final ride.There's a little black train a-comin'
Comin' down the track;
You gotta ride that little black train,
But it ain't a gonna bring you back. 

Little Darling


Little Fellow
 

Little Seed
:
Tooky, tooky, tooky, tooky, tidalo,
Tooky, tooky, tooky, tooky, tidalo,
Let’s all dance around and see my little seed grow.The rain it come and it washed my ground
I thought my little seed was going to drown
I waded and I splashed and I carried my seed
I planted it again on some higher ground.The sun got hot and my ground got dry.
I thought my little seed would burn and die.
I carried some water from a watering mill,
I said, “Little, you can drink your fill.”The snow it blowed and the wind it blew;
My little seed grew and it grew and it grew.
It grew up a cradle all soft inside;
And a baby was sleeping there covered over with vines. 

Little Sugar (Little Saka Sugar)
Jiggle, jiggle, jiggle, jiggle, tickle, tickle, tickle, tickle
Little sack of sugar I could eat you up.
Jiggle, jiggle, jiggle, jiggle, pickle, pickle, pickle, pickle
Little sack of sugar I could eat you up.Hey, hey, hey, my little sack of sugar,
Ho, ho, ho, my little sack of sweet.
Hee, hee, hee, my pretty little angel,
Pretty, pretty, pretty, I could eat your feet.Hey, hey, hey, my little honey bunny,
Ho, ho, ho, my little turtle dove,
Hee, hee, hee, my little sack of 'taters,
So pretty, pretty, pretty, I could eat your toes.Jiggle, jiggle, jiggle, jiggle, pickle, pickle, pickle, pickle
Little sack of sugar I could eat you up.
Jiggle, jiggle, jiggle, jiggle, tickle, tickle, tickle, tickle
Little sack of sugar I could eat you up.Hey, hey, hey, my tootsie wootsie,
Wrangle, tangle, dangle, and my honey in a tree.
Ho, ho, ho, my butterfly fritter,
So pretty, pretty, pretty I could eat your nose.Jiggle, jiggle, jiggle, jiggle, tickle, tickle, tickle, tickle
Little sack of sugar I could eat you up.
Jiggle, jiggle, jiggle, jiggle, tickle, tickle, tickle, tickle
Little sack of sugar I could eat you up.Google, google, google, a coo and a cuddle,
I kick your foot, like a bicycle pedal;
Pretty little hoot owl and a one-eyed frog,
So pretty, pretty, pretty I could gobble you whole.Jiggle, jiggle, jiggle, jiggle, tickle, tickle, tickle, tickle
Little sack of sugar I could eat you up.
Jiggle, jiggle, jiggle, jiggle, tickle, tickle, tickle, tickle
Little sack of sugar I could eat you up. 

Lonesome Valley
You gotta walk that lonesome valley,
You gotta walk it by yourself,
Nobody here can walk it for you,
You gotta walk it by yourself.Some people say that John was a Baptist,
Some folks say he was a Jew,
But your holy scripture tells you
That he was a preacher too.Daniel was a Bible hero,
Was a prophet brave and true,
In a den of hungry lions
Proved what faith can do for you.There's a road that leads to glory
Through a valley far away,
Nobody else can walk it for you,
They can only point the way.Mamma and daddy loves you dearly,
Sister does and brother, too,
They may beg you to go with them,
But they cannot go for you.I'm gonna walk that lonesome valley,
I'm gonna walk it by myself,
Don't want to nobody to walk it for me,
I'm gonna walk it by myself. 

Long Ways To Travel
Gonna leave the south
Going north for the fall
If my luck don't change, I won't be back at allI've got a long ways to travel
I've got a long ways to travel
I've got a long ways to travel
Before I ever get homeTakes a rocking chair to rock
Rubber ball to roll
Black-haired woman to satisfy my soulI've got a long ways to travel, I thought that you knowed
I've got a long ways to travel
I've got a long ways to travel
Before I ever get home 

Los Angeles New Years Flood
Oh, my friends, do you remember?
On that fatal New Year's night
The lights of old Los Angeles
Were a flick'ring, Oh, so bright.
A cloud burst hit our city
And it swept away our homes;
It swept away our loved ones
In that fatal New Years flood.No, you could not see it coming
Till through our town it rolled;
One hundred souls were taken
In that fatal New Years flood.Whilst we all celebrated
That happy New Year's Eve,
We knew not in the morning
This whole wide world would grieve;
The waters filled our canyons
And down our mountains rolled;
That sad news rocked our nation
As of this flood it told.No, you could not see it coming
Till through our town it rolled;
One hundred souls were taken
In that fatal New Years flood.Our highways were blockaded
Our bridges all washed down,
Our houses wrecked and scattered
As the flood came a-rumblin' down;
I bow my head in silence
And I thank my God above
That He did not take my home from me
In that fatal New Year's flood.No, you could not see it coming
Till through our town it rolled;
One hundred souls were taken
In that fatal New Years flood.

Love Thyself
Love thyself most and best
Love thyself day and night
Let no feared word cause thee
To hate thyselfLove thyself last and first
Love thyself more each month
Let no scared howl cause thee
To doubt thyselfLove thyself more and more
Love thyself loud and long
Let no bad dream make thee
Mistrust thyselfThyself is all you'll have
From cradle to thy grave
Love yours enough to make
Us love ourselvesThyself is all you'll have
From cradle to thy grave
Love yours enough to make
Us love ourselves 

Ludlow Massacre
It was early springtime when the strike was on,
They drove us miners out of doors,
Out from the houses that the Company owned,
We moved into tents up at old Ludlow.I was worried bad about my children,
Soldiers guarding the railroad bridge,
Every once in a while a bullet would fly,
Kick up gravel under my feet.We were so afraid you would kill our children,
We dug us a cave that was seven foot deep,
Carried our young ones and pregnant women
Down inside the cave to sleep.That very night your soldiers waited,
Until all us miners were asleep,
You snuck around our little tent town,
Soaked our tents with your kerosene.You struck a match and in the blaze that started,
You pulled the triggers of your gatling guns,
I made a run for the children but the fire wall stopped me.
Thirteen children died from your guns.I carried my blanket to a wire fence corner,
Watched the fire till the blaze died down,
I helped some people drag their belongings,
While your bullets killed us all around.I never will forget the look on the faces
Of the men and women that awful day,
When we stood around to preach their funerals,
And lay the corpses of the dead away.We told the Colorado Governor to call the President,
Tell him to call off his National Guard,
But the National Guard belonged to the Governor,
So he didn't try so very hard.Our women from Trinidad they hauled some potatoes,
Up to Walsenburg in a little cart,
They sold their potatoes and brought some guns back,
And they put a gun in every hand.The state soldiers jumped us in a wire fence corners,
They did not know we had these guns,
And the Red-neck Miners mowed down these troopers,
You should have seen those poor boys run.We took some cement and walled that cave up,
Where you killed these thirteen children inside,
I said, "God bless the Mine Workers' Union,"
And then I hung my head and cried. 

Mail Myself To You
I'm a-gonna wrap myself in paper,
I'm gonna daub myself with glue,
Stick some stamps on top of my head;
I'm gonna mail myself to you.I'm a gonna tie me up in a red string,
I'm gonna tie blue ribbons too,
I'm a-gonna climb up in my mail box;
I'm gonna mail myself to you.When you see me in your mail box,
Cut the string and let me out;
Wash the glue off my fingers,
Stick some bubble gum in my mouth.Take me out of my wrapping paper,
Wash the stamps off my head;
Pour me full of ice cream sodies,
Put me in my nice warm bed. 

Mailman
 

Make A Blobble
Oh my little baby,
If you don't make a blubble,
You'll swell up your tummy like a big balloon.

You'll fly up so high
In the clouds and skies
If you don't make a blubble
Make a blubber, pretty soon.

Patty patty back back,
Patty patty back back,
Peter patter snicker snacker,
Blow a bubble soon.

Patty patty back back,
Patty patty back back,
Peter patter snicker snacker,
Blow a bubble soon.

Oh you'll fly 'cross the ocean,
And you'll fly 'cross the sea.
If you don't make a blubble,
Just wait and see.

All the people, they'll see you
Flying up to the moon
Like a big balloon-er
Make a bleeble pretty soon.

Patty patty back back,
Patty patty back back,
Peter patter snicker snacker,
Blow a bubble soon.

Patty patty back back,
Patty patty back back,
Peter patter snicker snacker,
Blow a bubble soon. 

Many and the Few, The
My name is King Cyrus, my order I give,
You Jews can go back to your home
To build your holy temple again
In the land of Palestine.We’ve sung and danced o’er the hot rocky roads
Back to Eretz Yisroel’s land
We worked with plow and rake and hoe
And we blessed the works of our handsMy name is Ezra the Teacher man
I brought my scroll book along
I brought my flock to Yisroel
From that land called BabylonI’ll read you my Talmud Torah book
And the prophet’s dreams to you
And you’ll be fertile and multiply
If you keep your Torah trueMy name is Alexander the Great
More than half of this wide world is mine
Come stand around, my servants all
I’m wrapped on my bed here to dieAs the King of Syria and Palestine
Antiochus the Fourth, you’ll stand
To kill the Jews if they refuse
To worship our idols and godsMy name is Hannah, my first born son
Now stands before this king
Guilty of keeping the Sabbath laws
By the soldiers I see him slainIt’s one by one my seven sons
In front of my eyes cut down
For keeping to the Torah laws
I pay with my warm blood nowMy name is Mattathias, I’ve got five sons
In Modin City we dwell
They tried to make me bow down to their gods
Two of the King’s flunkeys I killedA hundred or more who’ll fight to be Jews
Did come to these hills with me
On my death bed your leader I’ll name
‘Tis Judah, the MacabeeMy name is Judah, the Macabee
By the name of the hammer I’m called
We’ll pray to God before every fight
Till all of our enemies fallAppolonius, the Governor, this day I killed
And his army we did bust
Some few of his soldiers run away in the wind
But most we’ve dropped dead in the dustSyron is my name, from Syria came
To destroy that fool Macabee
My army was great, his army was small
But he somehow did win over meTo deliver the many to the hands of his few
For God this is no trick at all
In a few short hours my army did break
And we flooded this valley with bloodMy name is Lysias, I dreamed up a plan
To burn the Jews tents as they slept
When I got there, their tents were all bare
And the Macabee’s army had leftHe stormed my own camp as my soldiers did sleep
And he killed several thousand in fear
My elephants, my horsemen, my footsoldiers, all
Judah hammered them down from the rearMy name is Jerusalem where Judah came back
To build up my Temple once more
To cut down the weeds and thorny brush
That grows ‘round my windows and doorsWhole stones, whole stones, we’ll build and pray
To God as a wholehearted Jew
God’s love the hateful many did place
In the hands of a God loving fewWe found in our temple a little oil jug
Just enough for the lamps for one night
That one little jug burned Eight whole days
And it kept our new temple in lightEight candles we’ll burn and a Ninth one too
Every New Year that comes and goes
We’ll think of the many in the hands of the few
And thank God we are seeds of the Jews 

Mean Talking Blues
I'm the meanest man that ever had a brain,
All I scatter is aches and pains.
I'm carbolic acid, and a poison face,
And I stand flat-footed in favor of crime and disgrace.
If I ever done a good deed -- I'm sorry of it.I'm mean in the East, mean in the West,
Mean to the people that I like the best.
I go around a-causin' lot of accidents,
And I push folks down, and I cause train wrecks.
I'm a big disaster -- just goin' somewhere's to happen.
I'm an organized famine -- studyin' now I can be a little bit meaner.
I'm still a whole lot too good to suit myself -- just mean...I ride around on the subway trains,
Laughin' at the tight shoes dealin' you pain.
And I laugh when the car shakes from side to side,
I laugh my loudest when other people cry.
Can't help it -- I was born good, I guess,
Just like you or anybody else ---
But then I... just turned off mean..I hate ev'rybody don't think like me,
And I'd rather see you dead than I'd ever see you free.
Rather see you starved to death
Than see you at work --
And I'm readin' all the books I can
To learn how to hurt --
Daily Misery -- spread diseases,
Keep you without no vote,
Keep you without no union.Well, I hurt when I see you gettin' 'long so well,
I'd ten times rather see you in the fires of hell.
I can't stand to fixed... see you there all fixed up in that house so nice,
I'd rather keep you in that rotten hole, with the bugs and the lice,
And the roaches, and the termites,
And the sand fleas, and the tater bugs,
And the grub worms, and the stingarees,
And the tarantulas, and the spiders, childs of the earth,
The ticks and the blow-flies --
These is all of my little angels
That go 'round helpin' me do the best parts of my meanness.
And mosquiters...Well, I used to be a pretty fair organized feller,
Till I turned a scab and then I turned off yeller,
Fought ev'ry union with teeth and toenail,
And I sprouted a six-inch stinger right in the middle of the tail,
And I growed horns...
And then I cut 'em off, I wanted to fool you.
I hated union ever'where,
'Cause God likes unions
And I hate God!Well, if I can get the fat to hatin' the lean
That'd tickle me more than anything I've seen,
Then get the colors to fightin' one another,
And friend against friend, and brother... and sister against brother,
That'll be just it.
Everybody's brains a-boilin' in turpentine,
And their teeth fallin' out all up and down the streets,
That'll just suit me fine.
'Cause I hate ever'thing that's union,
And I hate ever'thing that's organized,
And I hate ever'thing that's planned,
And I love to hate and I hate to love!
I'm mean, I'm just mean... 

Mean Things Happenin in this World
Look at th’ Big War ‘crost the Sea;
Well I’m sure that you’ll agree
There’s mean things a happenin’ in this world;I ain’t got a cryin’ dime,
An’ I’m that a way all th’ time;
There’s mean things a happenin’ in this world;Ever thing is leased and lent
And to Britain it has went;
And th’ Soldier in th’ War
Don’t know what he’s a fightin’ for;
And the Tanks a rollin’ on
To th’ burstin’ of th’ bombs;
Brother an’ Sister getting’ killed
For a green back dollar bill;
There’s Mean things a happenin’ in this WorldMan and Woman lend an ear
To the War that’s drawin’ neat;
You are spied on by Police
If you Speak the Word of Peace;
If you talk ‘bout Broth’ly Love
Back in Jail you’ll get shoved;
O’ I’d ruther’d fight for Peace
Than this crooked Lend & Lease
There’s Mean things a happenin’ in this WorldFolks wants Peace for miles aroun’
Lord, from New York City down;
But we’re a gonna save our Nation
With a Peace Mobilization;
Lord, the cops turn on th’ heat
If you talk Peace on th’ street
Organize my Brother and Sister
And we’ll win this World again;
There’s Mean things a happenin’ in this World*This song was recorded on the "Woody Guthrie Singles" album recorded by Blackfire. This album is no longer available. 

Meanest Man
If the folks next door to me wasn't so good
I'd do all the mean things anybody could
I'd drink and I'd gamble and I'd louse around
I'd be the meanest man in this whole townIf I hadn't seen the light in that old lady's eyes
I'd try to be a man that you would hate and despise
I'd rave and I'd rant and I'd scream and yell
And I'd chase all my neighbours from here to hellIf I hadn't heard those kids laugh playing games
I'd have nervous fits and I'd go insane
I'd turpentine cats and tin can dogs
And I'd smother people to death inside of holler logsIf the people around me wasn't so nice
I'd freeze my heart into a cake of ice
I'd steal money from soldiers and working folks too
I'd lend you a dollar and take back twoIf my wife didn't kiss me the way she does
I'd carry four or five daggers and three or four guns
I'd shoot craps and ramble and hang out late
And I'd steal baby buggies and Cadillac EightsIf my friends didn't write me those letters I get
I'd get to be a dictator and be the worse one yet
I'd be the only smart bird and you'd all be fools
All I'd send you all away to war and I'd set home and ruleIf it wasn't for them songs I hear all of you sing
I'd put a crown on my dome and I'd say I'm your king
I'd kidnap some and blackmail others
I'd peddle black market stuff and rob sisters and brothersIf it wasn't for your talking I hear along the street
I'd be the oneriest man that you ever did meet
I'd preach the gospel of hate and I'd drink your blood
But I can't be this bad because my folks are too good 

Mermaid's Avenue
Mermaid Avenue that’s the street
Where the lox and bagels meet,
Where the sour meets the sweet;
Where the beer flows to the ocean
Where the wine runs to the sea;
Why they call it Mermaid Avenue
That’s more than I can see.:
But there’s never been a mermaid here
On Mermaid Avenue
No, I’ve never seen a mermaid here
On Mermaid Avenue
I’ve seen hags and wags and witches;
And I’ve seen a shark or two
My five years that I’ve lived along
Old Mermaid’s AvenueMermaid Avenue that’s the street
Where the saint and sinners meet;
Where the grey hair meets the wave curls
Where the cops don’t ever sleep;
Where they pay some cops to stop you
When you hit that Sea Gate gate;
Where them bulls along that wire fence
Scare the mermaids all awayMermaid Avenue that’s the street
Where the sun and storm clouds meet;
Where the ocean meets that rockwall
Where the boardwalk meets the beach;
Where the prettiest of the maidulas
Leave their legprints in that sand
Just beneath our lovesoaked boardwalk
With the bravest of our lads.Mermaid Avenue that’s the street
Where all colors of goodfolks meet;
Where the smokefish meets the pretzel
Where the borscht sounds like the seas;
This is where hot Mexican Chili
Meets Chop Suey and meatballs sweet;
Mermaid Avenue she’s a nervous jerk
But, still, she’s hard to beat. 

Merry-Go-Round
Oh, come and see the merry-go-round,
The merry-go-round, the merry-go-round!
Come and see the merry-go-round
Go round and round and round!Come let's rub the pony's hair,
Come let's rub the pony's hair,
Lots of ponies that we can ride
Round and round and round.Now let's climb on the pony's back,
Now let's climb on the pony's back,
Pick up my reins and buckle my straps,
And round and round and round.It's faster now my pony runs
Up to the moon and down to the sun;
My pony runs to the music and drums,
Round and round and round.Now he runs as fast as the winds
And gallops and trots and dances a jig;
Pony's tired and he wants to slow down
Round and round and round.The pony stops and off I climb,
Off I climb, off I climb;
I'll come back and ride some other time
Round and round and round. 

Miner's Song
: Dig and I dig and dig and dig
Dig diggy dig dig dig a dig
Dig diggy diggy dig dig
And I dig my life away-o
And I dig my life awayPrecious metal is hard to find
Precious metal is hard to find
Down in the hole and down in the mine
And I dig my life away-o
And I dig my life awayPerfect ruby is hard to find
Perfect ruby is hard to find
Down in the gold slush and shine
And I dig my life away-o
And I dig my life awayGood-shaped diamond's hard to find
Good-shaped diamond's hard to find
Go in the hole both day and night
And I dig my life away-o
And I dig my life awayNice round pearl's hard to find
Nice round pearl's hard to find
Dive to the bottom and feel around
And I dig my life away-o
And I dig my life awayOld Sam Digger is hard to find
Old Sam Digger is hard to find
Drink my wine with pickle and brine
And I dig my life away-o
And I dig my life awayNice-shaped woman is hard to find
Nice-shaped woman is hard to find
Roll 'em down the mountainside
And I dig my life away-o
And I dig my life awayWay down yonder on the buckskin road
Catfish married a horny toad
The fifteen kids dig down in the mines
They dig their lives away-o
They dig their lives awaySharecrop bottom a few days ago
Water got high, spread a lot of mud
Caught me a gal with a rake and a hoe
We dug our lives away-o
And we dig our lives awayClimb way up to the forks of the tree
Prettiest little bird nest I ever did see
Get up the sticks and eggs and all
And dig my life away-o
Well I dug my life away 

Miss Pavilichenko
Miss Pavilichenko's well known to fame;
Russia's your country,fighting is your game;
The whole world will love her for a long time to come,
For more than three hundred Nazis fell by your gun.Miss Pavilichenko's well known to fame:
Russia's your country, fighting is your game;
Your smile shines as bright
As my new morning sun.
But more than three hundred nazisdogs fell by your gun.In you mountains and canyons
Quiet as the deer.
Down in your bigtrees knowing no fear.
You lift up your sight,
And down comes a hun;
And more than three hundred nazidogs
Fell by your gun.In your hot summer's heat,
In your cold wintery snow,
In all kinds of weather you track down your foe,
This world will love your sweet face
The same way I've done,
'Cause more than three hundred nazzy hound
Fell by your gun.I'd hate to drop in a parachute
And land and enemy in your land;
If your Soviet people make it so hard on invadin' men:
Of such a pretty lady's gun
If her name was Pavilichenko, and mine Three O One.Fell by your gun, yes, Fell by your gun,
For more than three hundred Nazis fell by your gun. 

Mister Charlie Lindbergh
Mister Charlie Lindbergh, he flew to old Berlin,
Got him a big Iron Cross, and he flew right back again
To Washington, Washington. Mrs. Charlie Lindbergh, she come dressed in red,
Said: "I'd like to sleep in that pretty White House bed
In Washington, Washington."Lindy said to Annie: "We'll get there by and by,
But we'll have to split the bed up with Wheeler, Clark, and Nye 
In Washington, Washington."Hitler wrote to Lindy, said "Do your very worst." 
Lindy started an outfit that he called America First 
In Washington, Washington. All around the country, Lindbergh he did fly, 
Gasoline was paid for by Hoover, Clark, and Nye 
In Washington, Washington.Lindy said to Hoover: "We'll do the same as France:
Make a deal with Hitler, and then we'll get our chance."
In Washington, Washington. Then they had a meetin', and all the Firsters come,
Come on a walk and they come on a run,
In Washington, Washington. Yonder comes Father Coughlin, wearin' the silver chain,
Gas on his stomach and Hitler on the brain.
In Washington, Washington.Mr. John L. Lewis would sit and straddle a fence,
But his daughter signed with Lindbergh, and we ain't seen her since
In Washington, Washington.Hitler said to Lindy: "Stall 'em all you can, 
Gonna bomb Pearl Harbor with the help of old Japan."
In Washington, Washington.Then on a December mornin', the bombs come from Japan,
Wake Island and Pearl Harbor, kill fifteen hundred men.
In Washington, WashingtonNow Lindy tried to join the army, but they wouldn't let him in,
Afraid he'd sell to Hitler a few more million men.
In Washington, Washington So I'm a-gonna tell you people, if Hitler's gonna be beat,
The common workin' people has got to take the seat
In Washington, Washington.And I'm gonna tell you workers, 'fore you cash in your checks:
They say "America First," but they mean "America Next!"
In Washington, Washington. 

Muleskinner Blues
Good mornin', captain; Good mornin', son;
Good mornin', captain; Good morning' son;
Do you need another muleskinner out on your new road line?Well, I like to work, I'm rollin' all the time;
I like to work, I'm rollin' all the time;
I can pop my initials on that mule's behind.Well, it's hey, little water boy, bring your water 'round;
Hey, little water boy bring your water 'round;
If you don't like your job, let the water bucket down.Well, I'm workin' on that new road at a dollar and a dime a day;
I'm workin' on that new road at a dollar and a dime a day;
I got three women watin' on a Saturday night just to blow my pay. 

My 30,000
Paul Robeson he’s the man
That faced the Ku Klux Klan
On hollow grove’s golfing ground
His words come sounding!
And all around him there
To jump and clap and cheer
I sent the best, the best I had
My thirty thousandThe Klansman leader said
That Paul would lose his head
When thirty five thousand vets
Broke up that concert.
But less than four thousand came
To side with the Klan!
But around Paul’s lonesome oak
(My thirty thousand).A beersoaked brassy band
Did snortle around the grounds
Four hundred noblest souls
(Westchester’s manhood)!
They looked exactly like
Fleas on a tiger’s back;
Lost fish in the waters of
My thirty thousand!When Paul had sung and gone
And the kids and babies home
Cops came with guns and clubs
And clubbed and beat them!
I’d hate to be a cop
Caught with a bloody stick,
('Cause you can’t bash the brains out
of thirty thousand)!Each eye you tried to gouge,
Each skull you tried to crack,
Has a thousand thousand friends
Around this green grass!
If you furnish the skull someday
I'll pass out the clubs and guns
To the billion hands that love
My thirty thousand!Each wrinkle on your face
I know it at a glance,
You cannot run and hide
Nor duck nor dodge them.
And your carcass and your deeds
Will fertilize the seeds
Of the men that stood to guard
My thirty thousand! 

My Battle
Show me how, how to fight my battle in life
Show me how to fight
And I'll run away with you

Teach me how, how to fight my hard times in life
Teach me how to fight and
I'll run away with you

And I will never dread the day I will die
'Cause my sunset is somebody's morning sky

Show me how, how to face my troublesome fights
Show me how to face them
And I'll run away with you

Teach me how, how to win my union in life
Show me how to win
And I'll run away with you

And I will never dread the day I will die
'Cause my sunset is somebody's morning sky

Show me how, how to win for all of my people
Show me how to win
And I'll run away with you

Teach me how, how to love this battle of life
Teach me how to love
And I'll run away with you

How to fight, how to win, how to love
Teach me how, show me how, teach me how
How to love
How to fight, how to win, how to love 

My Daddy Flies That Ship In The Sky
Well, a curly-headed girl with a bright shining smile
Heard the roar of a plane as it sailed through the sky
To her playmates she said, with a bright twinkling eye
My Daddy flies that ship in the skyMy Daddy flies that ship in the sky
My Daddy flies that ship in the sky
My Mama's not afraid and neither am I
'Cause my Daddy flies that ship in the skyThen a button-nosed kid, as he kicked up his heels
He said, My Daddy works in the iron and the steel
My Dad builds the planes and they fly through the sky
And that's what keeps your daddy up there so highThat's what keeps your daddy up there so high
That's what keeps your daddy up there so high
My Dad builds the planes and they fly through the sky
And that's what keeps your daddy up there so highThen a freckle-faced kid pinched his toe in the sand
He says, My Daddy works at that place where they land
You tell your mama, don't be afraid
My Dad'll bring your daddy back home againMy Dad'll bring your daddy back home again
My Dad'll bring your daddy back home again
Don't be afraid when it gets dark and rains
My Dad'll bring your daddy back home again 

My Dolly
I put my dolly's dress on,
I put my dolly's pants on,
I put my dolly's hat on
And she looks like this.I put my dolly's stockings on,
I put my dolly's shoes on,
She acts just like a clown-o
And she looks like this.
O, well, she looks like this-o,
Oh well she looks like this-o.
Tra-la-la-la-la-lo
And she looks like this.

My dolly talks for me, me,
My dolly walks for me, me,
When dolly walks and talks
Oh, well, she looks like this.

My dolly she can sing, sing,
My dolly she can dance, dance,
When dolly sings and dances
Well, she looks like this.



Dolly says I want to eat, eat,
Dolly says I want to drink, drink,
When dolly eats and drinks
Well, she looks like this.

Dolly plays with all her toy, toys
Dolly plays with the girls and boy, boys
When dolly runs and skips
Oh, well, she looks like this.

I know my dolly likes me,
I know my dolly loves me,
When dolly hugs and kisses me
Well, we look like this.

Dolly says I'm getting tired now,
Dolly says I want to lay down,
When dolly goes to sleep
Oh, well, she looks like this.

 

My Flowers Grow Green
My flowers grow green
So pretty to see;
My true love has promised to come back to me;
He promised to stay
For a lifetime through
And change my sad flowers to the red white and blue.

He held me and kist me
And swore he'd be mine
When he came back last trip from the deep salty brine
It was on that sweet morning
That I told him I cared;
And a bouquet of new hope he tied in my hair.

My roses of summer,
My violets for spring;
Forgetmenots bloomed round my cheeks like a ring;
Buttercups and daisies
Peeping so shy;
Nobody can love you as dearly as I.

My pinks and my phlox,
And my four o'clocks all;
Love vines are climbing my high garden wall;
My flowers brought you
From across that sad sea;
You'll never kiss another one pretty as me.

My flowers brought you
From across that sad sea
You'll never kiss another, prettier than me 

My Flying Saucer
My flying saucer where can you be
Since that sad night that you sailed away from me?
My flying saucer I pray this night
You will sail back before the day gets brightMy flying saucer fly back for home!
You will get lost in the universe alone!
My flying saucer and all my fears
Sail back tonight, love and kiss away my tears 

My Name Is New York
I'm the town called New York,
I was struck by the winds;
I been froze and been blistered
And then struck again;
I was struck by my rich folks,
And struck by my bums,
Struck by my mansions,
And struck by my slums.I was hit with disease
And with trouble and pain;
And I've seen my kids die
Under car wheels and trains;
I smelled the smoke roll
When it come from some hole
Where a cigaret spark
Killed a thousand good souls.I'm the town called New York,
I'm a brick on a brick;
I'm a hundred folks running
And ten dying sick;
I'm a saint, a bum, a whore and her pimp;
And your ocean's the mirror I look in to primp.I'm a sewer pipe and a steam cloud
And a little girl fell down;
My lights shine thrie brightest
When my nightgown comes down.I'm vulgar, I'm legal,
Illegal and wild;
I'm the Hudson and East river's
One lost lonesome child.I'm a stone on a stone;
I'm a rock on a rock;
And I comb my hairs back
With those ships in their locks.Ten million wild notions
Are fighting in me,
To speak a little plainer
And try to agree.I read mountains of books
Every day but I'm frisky;
I wash down my brain cells
With Hundred proof whiskey.I work and I slave
And I bless and abuse;
I waste twice as much
As I ever could use.I'm the town called New York
With my all color paint;
And I curse and I run
And I hide and I faint.I juice my blood full
Of every known dope;
And I'm the worlds biggest howler
Of nice friendly hope.I been here so long
That the weeds has forgot;
And I intend to stand
Right here till I rot.I'll see if my bad habits
Can ever tear down
More than my good ones
Can build up around.I come here to look
For a nice standing place;
To make a scientific test
For the whole human race.I'm going to try
Every earthly mistake
And see if your hands
Can fix me back straight.I might boil and blow
And shake to the ground
And smoke and tremble
And blaze all around.And no matter how low
Or how high I might fall;
Just remember, New York
Is the name I am called. 

My Peace
My peace, my peace is all I’ve got and all I've ever known
My peace is worth a thousand times more than anything I own
I pass my peace around and about ‘cross hands of every hue;
I guess my peace is justa ‘bout all I’ve got to give to you 

My Revolutionary Mind
Night is here again, baby,
Stretched out on my bed
Seeing all kinds of crazy notions
Running around through my headOne hand is on my pillow,
One hand on my head,
I see a million nightmares
Tearing around in my head;I need a progressive woman;
I need an awfully liberal woman.
I need a social conscious woman
To ease my revolutionary mind.If I could only make you see, babe,
I ache and pain and bleed, babe,
I know you’d come a runnin;
If you blistered both your feet.If you could see me here, baby,
Broke out with salty sweat;
No matter where you go I know
You never could forget.I need a progressive woman;
I need an awfully liberal woman.
I need a social conscious woman
To ease my revolutionary mind.I need a progressive woman;
I need an awfully liberal woman.
Ain’t no reactionary baby
Can ease my revolutionary mind. 

My Thirty Thousand
Paul Robeson he’s the man
That faced the Ku Klux Klan
On hollow grove’s golfing ground
His words come sounding!
And all around him there
To jump and clap and cheer
I sent the best, the best I had
My thirty thousandThe Klansman leader said
That Paul would lose his head
When thirty five thousand vets
Broke up that concert.
But less than four thousand came
To side with the Klan!
But around Paul’s lonesome oak
(My thirty thousand).A beersoaked brassy band
Did snortle around the grounds
Four hundred noblest souls
(Westchester’s manhood)!
They looked exactly like
Fleas on a tiger’s back;
Lost fish in the waters of
My thirty thousand!When Paul had sung and gone
And the kids and babies home
Cops came with guns and clubs
And clubbed and beat them!
I’d hate to be a cop
Caught with a bloody stick,
('Cause you can’t bash the brains out
of thirty thousand)!Each eye you tried to gouge,
Each skull you tried to crack,
Has a thousand thousand friends
Around this green grass!
If you furnish the skull someday
I'll pass out the clubs and guns
To the billion hands that love
My thirty thousand!Each wrinkle on your face
I know it at a glance,
You cannot run and hide
Nor duck nor dodge them.
And your carcass and your deeds
Will fertilize the seeds
Of the men that stood to guard
My thirty thousand! 

My Yellow Crayon

Yellow, yellow, yellow, yellow, my yellow crayon.
Yellow, yellow, yellow, yellow, my yellow crayon.
Yellow, yellow, yellow, yellow, my yellow crayon.
Yellow, yellow, yellow, yellow, my yellow crayon.

Well if you want to use my yellow crayon,
Go ahead and use my yellow crayon.
If you want to write, if you want to draw,
Go ahead and use my yellow crayon.

I put on my table my yellow crayon
So sister and brother and daddy and mom
Can see on my table my yellow crayon
And you can all use my yellow crayon.

I skipped home from school, from school today,
And I went to find my yellow crayon.
Mommy and daddy had broke it in two
And both was using my yellow crayon.

Well if you'd like to use my yellow crayon
Just ask for me and my yellow crayon.
I'll let you use my yellow crayon,
And I'll go and get you my yellow crayon.

Now when you buy me some more crayons
Get me a whole lot of yellow crayons.
Everybody uses my yellow crayons
And I'll need plenty of yellow crayons.



My yellow crayon, my yellow crayon,
And if you lose my yellow crayon,
Then I'll cry for my yellow crayon,
'Cause I wouldn't have me no yellow crayon.

Just ask me to bring you my yellow crayon,
And I'll ask you, "My yellow crayon?"
You say to me, "Your yellow crayon"
And I'll tell you, "Here's my yellow crayon."You can write letters with my yellow crayon,
Pictures and numbers in yellow crayon.
It's my yellow, my yellow crayon,
And I want you to use my yellow crayon.

Now when I'm at home, my yellow crayon,
Playin' with the kids, my yellow crayon,
Swimmin' in the water, my yellow crayon,
I'll be glad to bring you my yellow crayon.

You have used my yellow crayon,
You wore it down little, my yellow crayon.
You wore it so small, my yellow crayon,
I can't even hold it, my yellow crayon.

 

Needle Sing
Don't you hear my needle sing
Don't you hear my needle sing
I said Mama, don't you hear my needle sing
Mama, don't you hear my needle singKnitting for my daddy, needle sing
Knitting for my daddy, needle sing
Knitting for my daddy, needle sing
Well Mama, don't you hear my needle sing:
Zinga zinga zinga zinga, needle sing
Zinga zinga zinga zinga, needle sing
Zinga zinga zinga zinga, needle sing
Mama, don't you hear my needle singStitching for my brother, needle sing
Stitching for my brother, needle sing
Stitching for my brother, needle sing
Mama, don't you hear my needle singWell, the baby at the thimble, needle sing
The baby at the thimble, needle sing
The baby at the thimble, needle sing
Mama, don't you hear my needle singOh the kitten got my button, needle sing
Kitten got my button, needle sing
Kitten got my button, needle sing
Mama, don't you hear my needle singMama, don't you hear my needle sing a-zinga
Mama, don't you hear my needle sing a-zinga
Mama, don't you hear my needle sing a-zinga
Mama, don't you hear my needle singOh chicken in my basket, needle sing
Chicken in my basket, needle sing
Chicken in my basket, needle sing
Mama, don't you hear my needle singCatching me a sweetheart, needle sing
Catching me a sweetheart, needle sing
Catching me a feller, needle sing
Mama, don't you hear my needle sing 

New Baby Train
A lot of people ask me, I bet you'd like to know,
How do brand new babies get into this house? I'd like to know
You know I got the same question:
Where do the little babies come from anyway?
I really want to know the answer to that question!I guess the flowers bring some, the trees bring some
The birds bring some and the cars bring some
I guess everything else got to bring some too
Sometimes the trains bring some, the New Baby TrainI guess the little babies come along 'bout any way they can
Cars, trucks, tractors, airplanes, any way they can come along
But here's the way they might come on a train: New Baby TrainYeah, new baby train
New baby train
New baby trainHere's the way it sounds when it's standin' still
Waitin' for that conductor to start up
All the little babies are lookin' out the window
Wonderin' which house they're gonna get off at, you know.I said, "Hey, Mister Conductor, I'm sittin' here waitin',
Uh, how long do I have to wait?
I sure wanna go, I wanna go, I sure do wanna go
I sure do wanna go on the new baby train."And the conductor says, "O.K., go ahead now"
So the train starts up kinda slow
Blowin' the whistle, lettin' out that steam
Yeah, you know it sounds kinda like this:I wanna go faster, I wanna go faster, I wanna go faster, I wanna go faster.O.K., ain't no trains on this track
This baby train's got all the track to itself
So you can go just as fast as you want to
Over a big high mountain
Way up to the clouds and back down again
Through the sky and everywhere else
Let the babies off at their homes.
We goin' up the mountain, babyHey, let all the babies off at their homes,
I said let all the babies off at their homes
Yeah, yeahWell, a lot of people ask me
I bet you'd like to know
How do brand new babies
Get into the house
I'd like to know
Yeah, it's that new baby train
Yeah, new baby train, yeah new baby train
Aw, bye bye
We're gonna let all the babies off at their homesYou know, boy, I tell you
All the families are gonna be happy
Mom and Dad are gonna love it
Whoa, look out, don't go too fast.Oh, come on now
Stoke that fire up,
Need a new head of steam
Bye, bye, baby, have a nice life
Oh, that new baby train!

New Found Land
Well, I just got up to my new found land,
My new found land, my new found land.
I just got up to my new found land,
I'm a livin' by the light of the morning.I built me a house of a new cut tree,
A new cut tree, a new cut tree.
I built me a house of a new cut tree,
I'm a livin' in the light of the morning.Well, I built my house on a new cut stone,
A new cut stone, a new cut stone.
I built my house on a new cut stone,
I'm a livin' in the light of the morning,
Livin' in the light of the morning.I lit my lamp with a new-found light,
A new-found light, a new-found light,
I lit my lamp with a new-found light
And I'm a-livin' in the light of the morning.I'm plantin' my feet in the new-dug ground,
The new-dug ground, the new-dug ground.
I'm plantin' my feet in the new-dug ground
I'm livin' in the light of the morning,
Livin' in the light of the morning.I brought my child for my new found-wife,
My new-found wife, my new-found wife.
I brought my child for my new-found wife
Livin' in the light of the morning,
Livin' in the light of the morning.Well, I just got up to my new-found land,
My new-found land, my new-found land.
I just got up to my new-found land,
I'm livin' in the light of the morning,
Livin' in the light of the morning. 

New Multitudes
Gimme my new multitudes;
Gimme my new multitudes;
Gonna win my battle for peace;
Gotta have new multitudes;Gimme my new multitudes;
Gimme my new multitudes;
Gonna build up my old world over;
Gotta have new multitudes;Gimme my new multitudes;
Gimme my new multitudes;
Let’s multiply
Gotta have new multitudes;Gimme my new multitudes
Gimme my new multitudes
Gonna build my world with love
Gotta have new multitudes;Gimme my new multitudes
Gimme my new multitudes
Gonna lose this generation;
Gotta have new multitudes; 

New Star
There's my new star in heaven tonite tonite
There's my new star in heaven tonite
I call it fatherly father 'cause it shines so brite
There's my new star in heaven tonite

There's my new star in heaven tonite tonite
My new star in heaven tonite
It's when I'm gone I'll shine brite for you
My new star in heaven tonite

I see my new star in heaven tonite tonite
I see my new star in heaven tonite
I call it sisterly brother 'cause it shines so brite
It's my new star in heaven tonite

There's my new star in heaven tonite tonite
My new star in heaven tonite
It's when I'm gone I'll shine brite for you
My new star in heaven tonite 

New York Town
I was standing down in New York town one day,
Standing down in New York town one day,
I was standing down in New York town one day,
Singing hey, hey, hey, hey.I was broke and I didn't have a dime,
I was broke and I didn't have a dime,
I was broke and I didn't have a dime,
Singing hey, hey, hey, hey.Every good man gets a little hard luck sometimes,
Every good man gets a little hard luck sometimes,
Every good man gets a little hard luck sometimes,
Singing hey, hey, hey, hey.Down and out and he ain't got a dime,
Down and out and he ain't got a dime,
Down and out and he ain't got a dime,
Singing hey, hey, hey, hey.I'm gonna ride that new morning railroad (train),
I'm gonna ride that new morning railroad (train),
I'm gonna ride that new morning railroad (train),
Singing hey, hey, hey, hey.Standin' on my sidewalk curb today,
Standin' on my sidewalk curb today,
Standin' on my sidewalk curb today,
Singing hey, hey, hey, hey.Holdin' my last old dollar in my hand,
Holdin' my last old dollar in my hand,
Holdin' my last old dollar in my hand,
Singing hey, hey, hey, hey.Lookin' for a woman that's lookin' for a man,
Lookin' for a woman that's lookin' for a man,
Lookin' for a woman that's lookin' for a man,
Singing hey, hey, hey, hey.If you don't want me, you don't have to stall,
If you don't want me, you don't have to stall,
If you don't want me, you don't have to stall,
Singing hey, hey, hey, hey.I can get more women that a passenger train can haul,
I can get more women that a passenger train can haul,
I can get more women that a passenger train can haul,
Singing hey, hey, hey, hey.If you don't want me, please just leave me be,
If you don't want me, please just leave me be,
If you don't want me, please just leave me be,
Singing hey, hey, hey, hey.I can buy more lovers than the Civil war set free,
I can buy more lovers than the Civil war set free,
I can buy more lovers than the Civil war set free,
Singing hey, hey, hey, hey.Never comin' back to this man's town again,
Never comin' back to this man's town again,
Never comin' back to this man's town again,
Singing hey, hey, hey, hey. 

New York Trains, The
My wife come in this morning from Texas down the line
In the Big Grand Central Station the clock was striking nine.
She rode the Southwest Limited on the New York Central road
She chartered sixteen coaches and she brought the kids along.We rode the bus and subways all over New York Town
To rent us an apartment and try to settle down
The trains run through the buildings and also underground
And you spend another nickel every time you turn around.The subway trains are crowded and when they made a stop
You’re at the wrong dern station when the crowds they push you off
They heave and push and squeeze and squirm, they slip and slide and crowd
And when your station comes along, well then you caint get out.We hooked a train and rode an hour to see the Bronx Park Zoo
And landed out in Brooklyn on Utica Avenue
You got to change your subway train at every stop or two
And every time you come out wearing a different pair of shoes.We loaded in a taxi to haul us crost the town
And it registered a nickel everytime the wheel went ‘round
He charged us ‘leven dollars and eighty seven cent
And down in Texas that’s enough to pay six months of rent.Now friend if you are from the South or either way out West
And got a wife and children that you love your very best
If you come to New York City, I wish you very well,
You’d better bring a wagon load of greenback dollar bills. 

Nineteen Thirteen Massacre
Take a trip with me in 1913,
To Calumet, Michigan, in the copper country.
I will take you to a place called Italian Hall,
Where the miners are having their big Christmas ball.The piano played a slow funeral tune,
And the town was lit up by a cold Christmas moon,
The parents they cried and the miners they moaned,
"See what your greed for money has done." 

Ninety Mile Wind
Tonight is a night I'll walk in the wind
And listen to stuff I can write
The radio says a ninety mile wind
Will whip old New York town tonight.
Well I did walk and the wind did come
And I got to see who was the toughest
New York town or the high blowing wind
And I found out New York was the roughest.This town has stood up in the face of things
Lots worse than a ninety mile wind
It's not bad storms I'm afraid of today
But the greed that our leaders walk in.I'll walk along the boardwalk rail
And feel and hear this ninety mile gale
I can hear the ocean mourn and groan
And I wonder about ships lost out in this storm
So come on wind and blow out your brains
Blow like a cyclone across the flat plains
This is just an echo of our world wide storm
That's ripping away our balls and our chains.Blow you little hurricane blow blow blow
I can see the Ferris Wheel and the parachute jump
And the men and women in overalls holding Coney Island's rides down
And I sometimes wonder what we do between blowsThat is half as much fun as Coney Island or New York town
In a ninety or a hundred miles an hour storm.
And I remember that nature fights against all of man
And that man fights against all of nature
And that everything bites and fights every other thing
And that hurricanes do blow
And will blow, will blow
Some harder than others 

No Fear
I got no fear of life
I got no fear of death
I got no fear of life
I got no fear of death
I got no fears of life
I got no fears of death
I got no fears of life
I got no fears of deathI’m here on my deathbed
Breathin’ my last breath
I’m here on my deathbed
Takin’ my last breath
‘Cause I got no fears in life
I got no fears of death
I got no fears in life
I got no fears of deathDeath oh death you’re my best friend
Death oh death you’re my best friend
I got no fears in life
I got no fears in deathSuch a pretty, pretty place, I seen past my grave
Such a pretty, pretty place, I seen past my grave
I got no fears in life
I got no fears in death
I got no fears in life
I got no fears in death
I got no fears in life
I got no fears in death 

No More Letters
No more no more you'll hear from me
No more my letters you will read
No more the mailman walking by
Will give my words for you to see

No more I'll walk you down the street
No more play games along the sands
No more, no more, no more, no more;
You'll feel the touch of my warm hands.

No more letters, no more games
No more promises, no more rain
When my heartbreak wears away
No more letters

We had our spat and now I'm gone
You'll find some newer hand to hold;
No more, no more, no more, no more;
False promised words will burn my ear

Your sun will feel as good to you
My rain will feel the same to me
And when my heartbreak wears away
Then it will ache no more, no more.

Nor more letters, no more games
No more promises, no more rain
When my heartbreak wears away
No more lettersNo more no more you'll hear from me
No more my letters you will read
No more letters 

Oklahoma Hills
Many a month has come and gone
Since I wandered from my home
In those Oklahoma hills where I was born.
Many a page of life has turned,
Many a lesson I have learned;
Well, I feel like in those hills I still belong.'Way down yonder in the Indian Nation
Ridin' my pony on the reservation,
In those Oklahoma hills where I was born.
Now, 'way down yonder in the Indian Nation,
A cowboy's life is my occupation,
In those Oklahoma hills where I was born.But as I sit here today,
Many miles I am away
From a place I rode my pony through the draw,
While the oak and blackjack trees
Kiss the playful prairie breeze,
In those Oklahoma hills where I was born.Now as I turn life a page
To the land of the great Osage
In those Oklahoma hills where I was born,
While the black oil it rolls and flows
And the snow-white cotton grows
In those Oklahoma hills where I was born. 

Old Cap Moore
Old Cap Moore was a bakery hand, loaded trucks at night
The hungry cries of the alley kids, made Old Cap close his eyes
He turned his back while the kids ran up, grabbed a good hot loaf of bread
The kids run home, but when payday come Cap Moore was in the redBecause the bakery boss did count the loss, and he wrote it in his book
He docked Old Cap full retail price, for the bread the kids had took
Old Cap he jammed the backdoor latch, sSo the door did fly unlocked
The hungry kids picked up that bread for ten or twenty blocksMister, I’m a-tellin’ you
Everything I’ve said is true
No alley kid had a friend as sure
As Old Cap MooreThat boss took the driver and Cap to court, but he could not make it stick
The driver swore, “I did not know those doors had come unhitched.”
Old Cap says, “Boss, I’m a quitting you, and I am quitting now
I’ve got friends to put me up in every house in town.”Mister, I’m a-tellin’ you
What the old man said was true
It’s an open hand and an open door
For Old Cap MooreMister, I’m tellin’ you
One thing I know is true
To even the score we need a whole lot more
Like Old Cap Moore

Old Chisholm Trail
Come along boys and listen to my tale
Tell you of my trouble on the old Chisholm Trail
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayWell, I started up the trail October twenty-third
Started up the trail with a 2-U herd
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayTen dollar horse and a forty dollar saddle
I'm going cut them Texas cattle
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayWoke up one morning on the old Chisholm Trail
My rope in my hand and a cow by the tail
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayCloudy in the west, looking like rain
My danged old slicker's in the wagon again
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayJumped in the saddle and I grabbed that horn
The best blamed cowboy ever was born
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayDon't give a damn if I never do stop
Ride just as long as an eight day flop
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayFoot in the stirrup and a hand on the horn
The best danged cowboy ever was born
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayStray in the herd and the boss said, "Kill it,"
Hit him in the rump with the handle of a skillet
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayBacon and beans most every day
Soon to be eating that prairie hay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayBest dang horse, going on a run
Quickest shooting cowboy ever pulled a gun
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayWell, I went to the wagon to get my roll
Had had me figured nine dollars in the hole
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayWell, sell my outfit quick as I can
And I won't punch cattle for no damn man
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayGoing to town to draw my money
Going to town to see my honey
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yayKnees in the saddle and a seat in the sky
Quit my boss and say goodbye
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yi yippee yay
Come a ki yi yippee yippee yay 

Old Folks
Oh yes, I was plenty lonesome and I never will forget
How the old folks shuffle past me - I can see their faces yet -
Eyes all red around the edges and a damp look deeper in
Eyes that's seen their share of troubles that we're always stumbling in.
Foreheads marked and cut with wrinkles like the plow tracks on a field
Cheeks sunk in against the bone lips that never can be sealed.
Hair as grey and splashed with silver as a moonlight winter's night
Faces - faces - faces - what a picture! What a sight!
Faces friendly like a mountain top that stands up in the sun
When the blank and rotten tenements melt into the filthy slum
Strong and hard but bony faces with a shine of high tanned leather
Faces that had laughed and loved, and cried in every kind of weather
Eyes that looked out of sockets, like a man looks out of jail -
Half a smile and half a sneer - half a love song and half a wail.
Necks and muscles hard as iron once, a little front ways stooped,
Shoulders that had carried whole worlds, just a little downward drooped.
Young heads bobbed along the tight crowd and bellowed out their noise
That roars just like a cyclone in the younger girls and boys:
Eyes that shot ahead like spot lights on the drifting stage below
Eyes that made my spirits brighter even now that I was low.
And I thought, I wondered - which of these
Can look upon the rest of us and say she's really pleased. 

Old Judge Thayer
Old Judge Thayer take your shackle off of me;
Old Judge Thayer, take your shackle off of me;
Turn your key and set me free,
Old Judge Thayer take your shackle off of me.The monkey unlocked the courthouse door,
The elephant oiled the hardwood floor;
In did jump the kangaroo,
In did hop the rabbits, too.Next in come the two baboons,
Next in rolled a dusty storm,
Next in waddled the polar bear
To keep the judge and jury warm.Everybody knows that the mocking bird
Wrote down every word he heard,
The lawyers all were sly
With foxy nose and a foxy eye.The 'possum used the big stiff broom,
Then he polished the new spittoon;
Up did smile the crocodile,
Said, "Here comes the jury down the aisle."The old lady Catfish asked the Trout,
"What is this trial all about?"
The little baby Suckerfish up and said,
"The judge has caught him a couple of Reds."The Rattlesnake asked the Bumble Bee,
"Whose this Sacco and' Vanzetti?
"Are they the men," said Mammy Quail,
"That shot the clerks at the Slater Mill?"The Mosquito sung out with his wings,
"I was there and saw the whole blamed thing;
I saw the robbers fire their guns,
But I didn't see these men, neither one."The big-eyed Owl she looked around,
"They say that Sacco's cap was found
Down on Pearl Street on the ground
Where the payroll guards both got shot down.""That cap don't fit on Sacco's head,"
A big black Crow flapped up and said,
"They tried that cap on Sacco here,
And it fell down around both his ears."The Camel asked the old Giraffe,
"Did these two fellows duck the draft
By running down below the Mexican line
To keep from fighting on the rich man's side?"The limber Duck did rattle his bill.
"All the ducks and Geese are flying still
Down toward Mexico's warm sun
To try to dodge the rich man's gun."Up did waddle the Lucey Goose.
"I think these men ought to be turned loose.
But old Judge Thayer has swore to friends
These men will get the chair or noose."And when the guilty verdict came
And seven years in jail they'd laid,
And when these two men there did die,
The animals met on the earth and sky."Oh see what fear and greed can do,
See how it killed these sons so true?
Us varmints has got to get together too,
Before Judge Thayer kills me and you." 

Old Kokaine
When I die and I go to heaven
God will say you can’t stay here
I’ve soaked too much whiskey
Too many wines and beer
I’ve got too much goofball cocaine
On my brain
On my brain
I’ve got too much old kokaine
On my brain
On my brainTen million times I’ve been born and made
From the cradle to my grave
God sends me back to teach me
That liquors I should not crave
Nor to get too much old cocaine
On my brain
On my brain
Not to get too much kokaine
On my brainWhen I die and I go to heaven
God will say you can’t stay here
I’ve soaked too much whiskey
Too many wines and beer
I’ve got too much goofball cocaine
On my brain
On my brain
I’ve got too much old kokaine
On my brain
On my brain 

Old L.A.
I’ve been beatin’ my way around
In and out of a thousand towns;
But, old L.A. looks good to me.
L.A. sweetheart sweeter than honey;
Works all day and gives me the money
That’s why L.A. looks good to me.:
Old LA, it’s a pretty fair place to be
Old LA, it’s a pretty fair place to be
Looks good to me, looks good to me
When I kiss you and you kiss me,
Makes me glad we both agree
That’s why LA looks good to meIt’s hey, hey, hey and ho, ho, hooo;
Our kids just like this town will grow;
That’s why LA looks good to me 

Old Man Trump
I suppose that Old Man Trump knows just how much racial hate
He stirred up in that bloodpot of human hearts
When he drawed that color line
Here at his Beach Haven family project

Beach Haven ain't my home!
No, I just can't pay this rent!
My money's down the drain,
And my soul is badly bent!
Beach Haven is Trump’s Tower
Where no black folks come to roam,
No, no, Old Man Trump!
Old Beach Haven ain't my home!

I'm calling out my welcome to you and your man both
Welcoming you here to Beach Haven
To love in any way you please and to have some kind of a decent place
To have your kids raised up in.
   
Beach Haven ain't my home!
No, I just can't pay this rent!
My money's down the drain,
And my soul is badly bent!
Beach Haven is Trump’s Tower
Where no black folks come to roam,
No, no, Old Man Trump!
Old Beach Haven ain't my home! *The recorded version of this song is available on iTunes.*Ryan Harvey's YouTube Video

On The High Lonesome
Sometimes, just sometimes,
I seem to get on the high lonesome and if you don't
Know what that old high lonesome is
Just take my advice
And
Don't ever get on it.High lonesome eats at you
All the time
All the time
The old high lonesome
Eats at you all the timeNow living with a woman
Can nags at you all the time
We keep tossing
It back and forth
Back and forth
Me one night
With the high lonesome
Her the next
With the high lonesomeI always wondered what
The high lonesome was
Till it caught me up side of the head then I knew
Then I knewHow does the high
Lonesome work :
Well I tell you
When she gets to wanting to make love to me then I get sore
Then when I want to hug her up a little
She's gets a sore at me
When one of us felt like loving it up a little
It made the
Other one sore.Now this is called getting
Hung up
Between a rock and a hard placeWhen I do she dont
When she will I wont
When I can she cant
When I shall she shan't
It makes one
Sore as hell if the other one don't
You know what I'm talking about
Just a hell of a dam shape,
And the way you feel
Is like you're on
A
High lonesome. 

One By One
One by one the teardrops fall as I write to you
One by one my words come falling on the page
One by one my dreams are fading in the twilight
One by one my schemes are failing fast awayOne by one the flowers fade here in my garden
One by one the leaves are falling from the trees
One by one my hopes are vanished in the clouds dear
One by one like snowflakes melting in the breezeOne by one my hair is turning grey
One by one my dreams are fading fast away
One by one I read your letters over
One by one I lay them all awayOne by one the days are slipping up behind you
One by one the sweetest days of life go by
One by one the moments stealing up behind you
One by one she’ll come and find not you or IOne by one I hear the soft words that you whispered
One by one I feel your kisses soft and sweet
One by one I hope you’ll say the words to marry
One by one to one by one forever be

One Day Old
:
1 day, 2 days, 3 days old,
4 days, 5 days, 6 days old,
7 days, 8 days, 9 days old,
10 days, 20 days, no days old.

I'm a little baby one day old,
I'm a little sweet thing two days old,
I'm a little doodlebug 3 days old,
I'm a little cutie pie 4 days old.

I'm a little baby 5 days old,
I'm a little chipmunk 6 days old,
I'm a little jaybird 7 days old,
I'm a little angel 8 days old.



I'm a little baby 9 days old,
I'm a little kitty cat 10 days old,
I'm a little flower 11 days old,
And I'm a little sugar-tit 12 days old.

I'm a little baby a few days old,
I'm a little snick-snack some days old,
I'm a little jabber-talker lotta days old,
And I'm a little butterfly one minute old.

 

Orange Blossom Ring
I loved a man so kind and sweet
And every night we used to meet
He gave to me my orange blossom ring.
He got in trouble down in town
The deputy sheriff shot him down
I wore his golden orange blossom ring.'Twas on the night we were to wed
I got the news that he was dead
I thought of his orange blossom ring.
I drove to the place where he did lay
The last word that I heard him say
O' put away that orange blossom ring.I would not have you live a life
Of loneliness and tears and strife
So put away my orange blossom ring.
Just because I'm dead and gone
I would not see you live alone
And dwell alone with an orange blossom ring.Another lover I did meet
We're married now with children sweet
He gave to me an orange blossom ring.
Down through these years that we've been wed
I've never to my husband said
This is my second orange blossom ring. 

Oregon Trail
I been a grubbin' on a little farm on the flat and windy plains
I been a list'nin to the hungry cattle bawl.
I'm gonna pack my wife and kids,
I'm gonna hit that western road.
I'm gonna hit that Oregon Trail this comin' fall.ChrousNow, my true love she gets ailin'
When this dry old dust gets sailin'
And she wishes for the days beyond recall
If we work hard there's a future
In that north Pacific land
I'm gonna hit that Oregon trail this comin' fall.Well my land is dry and cracklin'
and my chickens they're a cacklin'
'Cause this dirt and dust is getting' in their craw
They been layin' flint rock eggs
I got to bust 'em with a sledge
I got to hit that Oregon trail this comin' fall.Yes, my hogs and pigs are squealin'
They're a rockin' and a reelin'
'Cause there ain't no mud to waller in the draw
I'm gonna grab them by their tails
Take them down that western trail
I'm gonna hit that Oregon trail this comin' fall.Well, my good old horse in bony
And he's tired and lonsesome too
You can count his ribs three quarters of a mile
Throw my bedroll on his back
Both the bay horse and the black
I'm gonna hit that Oregon trail this comin' fall.
I'm gonna hit that Oregon Trail this comin' fall,
I'm gonna hit that Oregon Trail this coming fall,
Where that good rain falls a plenty
Where the crops and orchards grow
I'm gonna hit that Oregon Trail this coming fall. 

Ought To Be Satisfied Now
You jacked me up and you run me down
You nagged at me and you bawled me out
You made me leave town and I'm Frisco bound
You'd ought to be satisfied now.You took my silver, you took my gold,
You made me believe every lie that you told
You left me a standing out there in the cold
You'd ought to be satisfied now.You went around with whoever you pleased
I stood in the rain in my B. V. D.'s
There was times when I thought I would freeze
You'd ought to be satisfied now.You got a new lover richer than me
You got a car and a boat on the sea
You spend all her money to go on a spree
You'd ought to be satisfied now.I'm down in this gutter, I'm hungry, I'm cold,
You're drinking and gambling and wasting our dough
You won't even pay back that money you owe
You'd ought to be satisfied now.Once I had a fortune that you took that away,
A hundred cold dollars you spent every day
Tonight I'm a bum on a Frisco train
You'd ought to be satisfied now. 

Pass Away
Heaven and earth they'll pass away pass away
Heaven and earth gonna pass away pass away
Heaven heaven heaven
and earth bound to pass away
But my words
They'll never ever pass awayCity and town they'll pass away pass away
Town and city both pass away pass away
Dreams and stars they’ll pass away
Not a word of mine
Will ever pass awayCountry and farm they’ll pass away pass away
Farm and country they’ll pass away pass away
Not a word of mine
Will ever pass awayHeaven and earth they'll pass away pass away
Heaven and earth gonna pass away pass away
Heaven heaven heaven
and earth bound to pass away
Not a word of mine
Will ever pass away 

Pastures of Plenty
It's a mighty hard row that my poor hands have hoed
My poor feet have traveled a hot dusty road
Out of your Dust Bowl and Westward we rolled
And your deserts were hot and your mountains were coldI worked in your orchards of peaches and prunes
I slept on the ground in the light of the moon
On the edge of the city you'll see us and then
We come with the dust and we go with the windCalifornia, Arizona, I harvest your crops
Well its North up to Oregon to gather your hops
Dig the beets from your ground, cut the grapes from your vine
To set on your table your light sparkling wineGreen pastures of plenty from dry desert ground
From the Grand Coulee Dam where the waters run down
Every state in the Union us migrants have been
We'll work in this fight and we'll fight till we winIt's always we rambled, that river and I
All along your green valley, I will work till I die
My land I'll defend with my life if it be
Cause my pastures of plenty must always be free 

Peace Call
Open your hearts to the paradise,
To the peace of the heavenly angels,
Takes away that woeful shadow dancing on your wall;
Take to the skies of peace, oh friends,
Of peace of the heavenly Father;
Get ready for my bugle call of peace.Peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace.
I can hear the bugle sounding,
Roaming around my land, my city and my town;
Peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace.
I can hear the horn and voices ring louder,
While my bugle calls for peace.

Thick war clouds will throw its shadows,
Darkening the world around you,
But in my life of peace your dark illusions fall;
Think and pray my union way,
Kiss everybody around you;
Get ready for my bugle call of peace.

Peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace.
I can hear the bugle sounding,
Roaming around my land, my city and my town;
Peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace.
I can hear the horn and voices ring louder,
While my bugle calls for peace.

If these war storms fill your heart
With a thousand kinds of worry,
Keep to my road of peace, you’ll never have to fear;
Keep in the sun and look around
In the face of peace and plenty;
Get ready for my bugle call of peace.

Peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace.
I can hear the bugle sounding,
Roaming around my land, my city and my town;
Peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace.
I can hear the horn and voices ring louder,
While my bugle calls for peace.

I’ll clear my house of the weeds of fear
And turn to the friends around me,
With my smile of peace, I’ll greet you one and all;
I’ll work, I’ll fight, I’ll sing and dance,
Of peace of the youthful spirit;
Get ready for my bugle call of peace.

Peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace.
I can hear the bugle sounding,
Roaming around my land, my city and my town;
Peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace, peace.
I can hear the horn and voices ring louder,
While my bugle calls for peace. 

Peace Pin Boogie
Went to kiss my sweetie, same as before;
In my face she slammed her door:
"Get out of my door, you got no peace pin on!
Get out of my door, you ain't got no peace pin on!"

:
Peace, peace, peace, peace, boogie for peace,
Wanna kiss my sweet, I gotta boogie for peace.
Looks like I'm gona, ain't got no peace pin on;
Can't kiss my sweet peach when I've got no peace pin on!

I dropped in my tavern, same as before,
Barman booted my out of his door;
Says: "Got out of my bar, you ain't got no peace pin on:
Get out of my joint, you don't have no peace pin on!"



I went to visit heaven, same as before,
St. Peter slide me out of his back door;
Says: "Got out of my heaven, you don't have no peace pin on!
Got out of God's heaven, you don't have no peace pin on!"



I visited Hell's hole, same as before,
Old Devil he sent me right out of his fire;
Says: "Get out of my Hell, you don't have a peace pin showing!
Get out of my Hell, you haven't got your peace pin showing!"

 

Philadelphia Lawyer
Way out in Reno, Nevada,
Where romance blooms and fades,
A great Philadelphia lawyer
Was in love with a Hollywood maid."Come, love, and we'll go ramblin'
Down where the lights are so bright.
I'll win you a divorce from your husband,
And we can get married tonight."

Wild Bill was a gun-totin' cowboy,
Ten notches were carved in his gun.
And all the boys around Reno
Left Wild Bill's maiden alone.One night when Bill was returning
From ridin' the range in the cold,
He dreamed of his Hollywood sweetheart,
Her love was as lasting as gold.As he drew near her window,
Two shadows he saw on the shade;
'Twas the great Philadelphia lawyer
Makin' love to Bill's Hollywood maid.The night was as still as the desert,
The moon hangin' high overhead.
Bill listened awhile through the window,
He could hear ev'ry word that he said:"Your hands are so pretty and lovely,
Your form's so rare and divine.
Come go with me to the city
And leave this wild cowboy behind."Now tonight back in old Pennsylvania,
Among those beautiful pines,
There's one less Philadelphia lawyer
In old Philadelphia tonight. 

Pick It Up
I drop my thumb, pick it up, pick it up
I drop my thumb, pick it up, pick it up
I drop my thumb, pick it up, pick it up
And put it back with my fingers.I drop my candy, pick it up, pick it up
I drop my candy, pick it up, pick it up
I drop my candy, pick it up, pick it up
And throw it away in the garbage.:
Pick pick picka, pick it up, pick it up
Pick pick picka, pick it up, pick it up
Pick pick picka, pick it up, pick it up
Picka picka picka, pick it up, pick it up.I drop my apple, pick it up, pick it up
I drop my apple, pick it up, pick it up
I drop my apple, pick it up, pick it up
And wash it clean in the water.I drop my dolly, pick it up, pick it up
I drop my dolly, pick it up, pick it up
I drop my dolly, pick it up, pick it up
And lay her back in her cradle.I drop my shoe, pick it up, pick it up
I drop my shoe, pick it up, pick it up
I drop my shoe, pick it up, pick it up
And put it with my other shoe.I drop my head, pick it up, pick it up
I drop my head, pick it up, pick it up
I drop my head, pick it up, pick it up
And put it back on my shoulders.

Pictures From Life's Other Side
In my great mighty gallery of pictures
I see pictures all painted from life
Scenes of wealth and of plenty & scenes of misery and strife
I pass Picture of Youth and fair Beauty
Old Age and my Blushing Young Bride
All hang round my wall 

Plane Wreck At Los Gatos (Deportee)
The crops are all in and the peaches are rott'ning,
The oranges piled in their creosote dumps;
They're flying 'em back to the Mexican border
To pay all their money to wade back againGoodbye to my Juan, goodbye, Rosalita,
Adios mis amigos, Jesus y Maria;
You won't have your names when you ride the big airplane,
All they will call you will be "deportees"My father's own father, he waded that river,
They took all the money he made in his life;
My brothers and sisters come working the fruit trees,
And they rode the truck till they took down and died.Some of us are illegal, and some are not wanted,
Our work contract's out and we have to move on;
Six hundred miles to that Mexican border,
They chase us like outlaws, like rustlers, like thieves.We died in your hills, we died in your deserts,
We died in your valleys and died on your plains.
We died 'neath your trees and we died in your bushes,
Both sides of the river, we died just the same.The sky plane caught fire over Los Gatos Canyon,
A fireball of lightning, and shook all our hills,
Who are all these friends, all scattered like dry leaves?
The radio says, "They are just deportees"Is this the best way we can grow our big orchards?
Is this the best way we can grow our good fruit?
To fall like dry leaves to rot on my topsoil
And be called by no name except "deportees"? 

Poor Boy
My mother called me to her bedside,
These words she said to me,
If you don't quit you ramblin' ways,
They're gonna get you in the penitentiary.Gonna get you in the penitentiary, poor boy,
Gonna get you in the penitentiary,
If you don't quit your reckless ways
They're gonna get you in the penitentiarySo I set myself down in a gamblin' game,
And I could not play my hand;
Thinkin' about that women I loved,
Who run away with another man.Run away with another man, poor boy,
Run away with another man;
Just thinkin' about that woman I loved,
Who runs away with another man.The cards come around the table, Lord,
And I had such a worried mind;
My stack of gold dollars I wasted away,
And I lost about ninety-nine.I lost about ninety-nine, poor boy,
I lost about ninety-nine;
My stack of gold dollars I wasted away,
And I lost about ninety-nine.It wasn't very long till I seen him again,
He run away and left her behind;
And I laid him down with my old forty-four,
And the judge gave me ninety-nine.Well, the judge gave me ninty-nine, poor boy,
And he give me ninety-nine;
I laid a man down with my big forty-four,
And the judge give me ninety-nine.

Postwar Breakout
I’ma post war breakout
I’ma post war breakdown
I’ma post war nervroe
And a post war hero
I’ma post war skitzoe
I’ma post war freenyoe
Post war nerve case
And a post war face historyI’ma psykoe pathy crackdown
I’ma looney blooney breakdown
War shocky suki yaki boy
I got a long personality
I got a medal I’ma hero
I got an id, I got an ego
I got a pocket book and no dough
Justa post war shock job.I’ma evil minded breakdown
I’ma vulgar thinking crackdown
I’ma lascivious lewdy nude boy
I’m a great long doctor book full.
I’ma irresponsible hobo
I’ma noncommy drifter
I’ma mad old raver loose jaw
I’ma Ex G.I. for sure sure. 

Pretty And Shiny-o
Take my brush, take my broom,
Clean and I clean around my room.
Clean and I clean around my room,
To make it pretty and shiny-o.Take my polish, take my cloth,
Rub and I rub and I polish it off
Rub and I rub and I polish it off
To make it pretty and shiny-o.Take my soap, take my clothes
Down and down in the water they go
Down and down in the water they go
To make them pretty and shiny-o.Take my brush, scrub my teeth
Scrubble and scrabble, I brush my teeth
Bubble and blow, bubble and blow
To keep them pretty and shiny-o.Tippy tappy toe, I go to bed
Close my eyes, I rest my head
Sleepy sleepy tight, sleepy sleepy tight
To make eyes pretty and shiny-o. 

Pretty Boy Floyd
If you'll gather 'round me, children,
A story I will tell
'Bout Pretty Boy Floyd, an outlaw,
Oklahoma knew him well.

It was in the town of Shawnee,
A Saturday afternoon,
His wife beside him in his wagon
As into town they rode.There a deputy sheriff approached him
In a manner rather rude,
Vulgar words of anger,
An' his wife she overheard.Pretty Boy grabbed a log chain,
And the deputy grabbed his gun;
In the fight that followed
He laid that deputy down.Then he took to the trees and timber
Along the river shore,
Hiding on the river bottom
And he never come back no more.Yes, he took to the trees and timber
To live a life of shame;
Every crime in Oklahoma
Was added to his name.But a many a starvin' farmer
The same old story told
How the outlaw paid their mortgage
And saved their little homes.Others tell you 'bout a stranger
That come to beg a meal,
Underneath his napkin
Left a thousand-dollar bill.It was in Oklahoma City,
It was on a Christmas Day,
There was a whole car load of groceries
Come with a note to say:"Well, you say that I'm an outlaw,
You say that I'm a thief.
Here's a Christmas dinner
For the families on relief."Yes, as through this world I've wandered
I've seen lots of funny men;
Some will rob you with a six-gun,
And some with a fountain pen.And as through your life you travel,
Yes, as through your life you roam,
You won't never see an outlaw
Drive a family from their home. 

Put Your Finger In the Air
Put your finger in the air, in the air;
Put your finger in the air, in the air;
Put your finger in the air
And leave it about a year;
Put your finger in the air, in the air.Put your finger on your head, on your head;
Put your finger on your head, on your head;
Put your finger on your head
Tell me if it's green or red?
Put your finger on your head on your head.Put your finger on your nose, on your nose;
Put your finger on your nose, on your nose;
Put your finger on your nose
And feel the cold wind blow;
Put your finger on your nose, on your nose.Put your finger on your shoe, on your shoe;
Put your finger on your shoe, on your show;
Put your finger on your shoe
And leave it a day or two;
Put your finger on your shoe, on your shoe.Put your finger on your chin, on your chin;
Put your finger on your chin, on your chin;
Put your finger on your chin -
That's where the food slips in;
Put your finger on your chin, on your chin.Put your finger on your cheek, on your cheek;
Put your finger on your cheek on your cheek;
Put your finger on your cheek
And leave it about a week;
Put your finger on your cheek, on your cheek.Put your finger on your finger, on your finger;
Put you finger on your finger, on your finger;
Put your finger on your finger,
On your finger on your finger;
Put your finger on your finger, on your finger.Put your fingers all together, all together;
Put your fingers all together, all together;
Put your fingers all together
And we'll clap for better weather;
Put your fingers all together, all together. 

Race You Down The Mountain
I'll race you down the mountain
I'll race you down the mountain
I'll race you down the mountain
We'll see who get there first.Let's run and jump the river,
Let's run and jump the river,
Let's run and jump the river,
We'll see who get there first.I hear myself a-huffing
A-huffing and a-puffing
I hear myself a-huffing
We'll see who gets there first.NOW, I'll race you down the mountain
I'll race you down the mountain
I'll race you down the mountain
we'll see who gets there first.I'll race you down the mountain
I'll race you down the mountain
I'll race you down the mountain
We'll see who gets there first. 

Ramblin' Blues
Standing down in Portland town one day
I Was standing down in Portland town one day
Standing down in Portland town one day
Hey.........., hey....., hey....., hey.....I come from Louisiana where the Red Fish in the bay;
I come from Louisiana where the Red Fish in the bay;
Lord, I come from Louisiana where the Red Fish in the bay;
And it's hey, hey, hey!I said, which a way does Columbia River run?
I said which a way does Columbia River run?
I says, a which a way does Columbia River run?
From the Canadian Rockies to the ocean of the Settin' Sun.I walk down the road and I see your Bonneville Dam;
I walk down the road and I see your Bonneville Dam;
Walk the rocky road and I see your Bonneville Dam;
'lectricity run th' fact'ry makin' planes for Uncel Sam.Well how many river have you got in Portland town?
I said, How many rivers have you got in Portland town?
I said, How many rivers have you got in Portland town?
They said, The Columbia River is the river that they all run down.Oh, Columbia River, takes 'em all to the ocean blue;
That Columbia River, takes 'em all to the ocean blue;
That Columbia River, takes 'em all to the ocean blue;
Snake, Hood, Willamette, Yakima, and th' Klickitat, too.I'm a ramblin' man; and I ramble all the time;
I'm a ramblin' man; and I ramble all the time;
I'm a ramblin' man; and I ramble all the time;
But every good man has got to ramble when it comes his time.I'm out of work, ain't a working, ain't got a dime;
I said, I'm out of work, ain't a working, ain't got a dime;
Yes, I'm out of work, ain't a workin', ain't got a dime;
But a hard workin' man gets it down and out some time.Well, when I seen that great big Bonneville Dam;
It was when I seen that great big Bonneville Dam;
Yes, when I seen that great big Bonneville Dam;
Well I wish't I'd a been workin' makin' somethin' for Uncle Sam.I had a job last year, but I ain't had a good job since,
I had a job last year, but I ain't had a good job since,
I had a job last year, but I ain'y had a good job since,
I'll get a job along the River just for Uncle Sam's defense.I never took relief, but I need relief right now;
I never took relief, but I need relief right now;
I never took relief, but I need relief right now;
But me an' th' River's gonna roll roll along somehow. 

Ramblin Reckless Hobo
A ramblin' reckless hobo
Left his happy home
Wandered away from his parents dear
To ramble and to roam
His father warned and his mother prayed
His sweetheart begged him to stay
But none could keep this reckless boy
From ramblin' far awayYou see him down in a railroad town
His head hung down in shame
A bottle of rum to end his gloom
He sets in a gamblin' game
His life is filled with crime now
His thoughts go back to home
And all the ones who beg'd him not
To ramble and to roamUpon a moonless midnight
He robbed a travelin' man
The jury gave him twenty-one years
In a jail in Birmingham
His father's advice his mother's prayers
His sweetheart's tears were vain
They never knew what became of him
For he never wrote home againNow all you boys remember
These words I'm tellin' you
Don't ever forsake your loved ones
Or your parents kind and true
Remember wherever you travel
Wherever you may roam
You'll never find what you left behind
Your loved ones and your home 

Ramblin' Round
Ramblin' around your city,
Ramblin' around your town,
I never see a friend I know
As I go ramblin' 'round boys,
As I go ramblin' 'round.My sweetheart and my parents
I left in my old hometown
I'm out to do the best I can
As I go ramblin' roundThe peach trees they are loaded,
The limbs are bending down,
I pick 'em all day for a dollar,
As I go a ramblin' 'round boys,
As I go a ramblin' 'round.Sometimes the fruit gets rotten
And falls upon the ground,
There's a hungry mouth for every peach
As I go a ramblin' 'round boys,
As I go a ramblin' 'round.I wish that I could marry,
So I could settle down,
But I caint save a penny
As I go a ramblin' 'round boys,
As I go a ramblin' 'round.My mother prayed that I would be
A man of some renown,
But I'm just a railroad bum
As I go a ramblin' 'round boys,
As I go a ramblin' 'round. 

Rangers Command
Come all of you cowboys all over this land,
I'll teach you the law of the Ranger's Command:
To hold a six shooter, and never to run
As long as there's bullets in both of your guns.I met a fair maiden whose name I don't know;
I asked her to the roundup with me would she go;
She said she'd go with me to the cold roundup,
And drink that hard liquor from the cold, bitter cup.We started for the canyon in the fall of the year
Expecting to get there with a herd of fat steer;
And the rustlers broke on us in the dead hours of night;
She 'rose from her warm bed, a battle to fight.She 'rose from her warm bed with a gun in each hand,
Said: Come all of you cowboys and fight for your land,
Come all of you cowboys and don't ever run
As long as there's bullets in both of your guns. 

Red Wine
Oh, pour me a drink of Italian red wine,
Let me taste it and call back to mind
Once more in my thoughts, once more to my soul
This story as great, if not greater, than all.The AP news on June 24 th
Told about a Patrolman named Earl J. Vaugh,
He stepped on a Main Street Trolley Car
To arrest Sacco and Vanzetti there.The article tell how Earl J. Vaugh
Is now retiring as officer of law;
This cop goes down in my history
For arresting Sacco and Vanzetti that day."Twas nineteen and twenty, the fifth of May,
The cop and some buddies took these two men away
Off of the car and out and down,
Down to the jail Brockton town.There's been a killing and robbery
At Slater Morrill's shoe factory;
You two gents are carrying guns,
And you dodged the draft when the war did come.Yes, oh yes, 'tis so, 'tis so,
We made for the borders of Mexico;
The rich man's war we could not fight,
So we crossed the border to keep out of sight.You men are known as radical sons,
You must be killers, you both carry guns.
I am a night watchman, my friend peddles fish,
He carries his gun when he's go lots of cash.Oh, pour me a glass of Germany's beer,
Russia's hot vodka, strong and clear,
Oh, pour me a glass of Palestine's Hock,
Or just a moonshiner's bucket of Chock.Out of the rest, about fifty just guessed,
And out of the five that were put to the test,
Only the story of one held true,
After a hundred and fifty-nine got through.And one this one, uncertain and afraid,
She saw the carload of robbers, she said,
And one year later, she remembered his face,
After seeing this car for a second and a half.She told of his hand, his gun, his ears,
She told of his shirt, and the cut of his hair,
She remembered his eyes, his lips, his cheeks,
And Eva Splaine's tale sent these men to the chair.I was right here in Boston the night they died.
I never seen such a sight in my life;
I thought those crowds would pull down the town,
I was hoping they'd do it and change things around.I hoped they'd pull Judge Thayer on down
From off of his bench and chase him around;
I hoped they'd run him around the stump
And stick him with devils tails 'bout every jump. 

Remember The Mountain Bed
Do you still sing of the mountain bed we made of limbs and leaves:
Do you still sigh there near the sky where the holly berry bleeds:
You laughed as I covered you over with leaves, face, breast, hips and thighs.
You smiled when I said the leaves were just the color of your eyes.Rosin smells and turpentine smells from eucalyptus and pine
Bitter tastes of twigs we chewed where tangled woodvines twine
Trees held us in on all four sides so thick we could not see
I could not see any wrong in you, and you saw none in me.Your arm was brown against the ground, your cheeks part of the sky.
As your fingers played with grassy moss, and limber you did lie:
Your stomach moved beneath your shirt and your knees were in the air
Your feet played games with mountain roots, as you lay thinking there.Below us the trees grew clumps of trees, raised families of trees, and they
As proud as we tossed their heads in the wind and flung good seeds away:
The sun was hot and the sun was bright down in the valley below
Where people starved and hungry for life so empty come and go.There in the shade and hid from the sun we freed our minds and learned.
Our greatest reason for being here, our bodies moved and burned
There on our mountain bed of leaves we learned life’s reason why
The People laugh and love and dream, they fight, they hate to die.The smell of your hair I know is still there, if most of our leaves are blown,
Our words still ring in the brush and the trees were singing seeds are sown
Your shape and form is dim, but plain, there on our mountain bed
I see my life was brightest where you laughed and laid your head…I learned the reason why man must work and how to dream big dreams,
To conquer time and space and fight the rivers and the seas
I stand here filled with my emptiness now and look at city and land
And I know why farms and cities are built by hot, warm, nervous hands.I crossed many states just to stand here now, my face all hot with tears,
I crossed city, and valley, desert, and stream, to bring my body here:
My history and future blaze bright in me and all my joy and pain
Go through my head on our mountain bed where I smell your hair again.All this day long I linger here and on in through the night
My greeds, desires, my cravings, hopes, my dreams inside me fight:
My loneliness healed my emptiness filled, I walk above all pain
Back to the breast of my woman and child to scatter my seeds again. 

Reuben James
Have you heard of a ship called the good Reuben James
Manned by hard fighting men both of honor and fame?
She flew the Stars and Stripes of the land of the free
But tonight she's in her grave at the bottom of the sea.Tell me what were their names, tell me what were their names,
Did you have a friend on the good Reuben James?
What were their names, tell me, what were their names?
Did you have a friend on the good Reuben JamesWell, a hundred men went down in that dark watery grave
When that good ship went down only forty-four were saved.
'Twas the last day of October we saved the forty-four
From the cold ocean waters and the cold icy shore.It was there in the dark of that uncertain night
That we watched for the U-boats and waited for a fight.
Then a whine and a rock and a great explosion roared
And they laid the Reuben James on that cold ocean floor.Now tonight there are lights in our country so bright
In the farms and in the cities they're telling of the fight.
And now our mighty battleships will steam the bounding main
And remember the name of that good Reuben James. 

Revolutionary Mind
Night is here again, baby,
I'm stretched out on my bed
Seeing all kinds of crazy notions
Running through my headI need a progressive woman;
I need an awfully liberal woman.
There ain’t no reactionary baby
Can ease my revolutionary mind.One hand is on my pillow,
One hand is on my head,
I see a million nightmares
Tearing around inside my head;I need a progressive woman
I need an awful liberal woman
I need a social conscious woman
To ease my revolutionary mind.If I could only make you see, babe,
I ache and pain and bleed,
I know you’d come a runnin;
If you blistered both your feet.I need a progressive woman
I need an awful liberal woman
I need a social conscious woman
To ease my revolutionary mind. 

Riding In My Car
Brrrm brm brm brm brm brm brm, brrrm b’ brrrm,
Brrrm brm brm brm brm brm brrrm b’ brrrm,
Brrrm brm brm brm brm brm brrrm b’ brrrm.
Brrrm brm brm brm brm brm brrrm.Take me riding in the car, car;
Take me riding in the car, car;
Take you riding in the car, car;
I'll take you riding in my car.Click clack, open up the door, girls;
Click clack, open up the door, boys;
Front door, back door, clickety clack,
Take you riding in my car.Climb, climb, rattle on the front seat;
Spree I spraddle on the backseat;
Turn my key, step on my starter,
Take you riding in my car.Engine it goes boom, boom;
Engine it goes boom, boom;
Front seat, backseat, boys and girls,
Take you riding in my car.Trees and the houses walk along;
Trees and the houses walk along;
Truck and a car and a garbage can,
Take you riding in my car.Ships and the little boats chug along;
Ships and the little boats chug along;
Boom buhbuh boom boom boom buh boom,
Take you riding in my car.I'm a gonna send you home again;
I'm a gonna send you home again;
Boom, boom, buhbuh boom, rolling home,
Take you riding in my car.I'm a gonna let You blow the horn;
I'm a gonna let you blow the horn;
A oorah, a oorah, a oogah, oogah,
I'll take you riding in my car. 

Roll, Columbia, Roll
There's a great and peaceful river in a land that's fair to see
Where the Douglas-fir tree whispers to the snow-capped mountain breeze
Cliffs of solid granite and the valley's always green
This is just as close to heaven as my traveling feet have been:
Roll, Columbia, won't you roll, roll, roll
Roll, Columbia, won't you roll, roll, rollStand upon her timbered mountain, look across her silver strand
See the crops and orchards springing to the touch of nature's hand
And it's further up the river where your eye will meet the skies
Where you'll see the steel and concrete of the big Grand Coulee riseThere at Priest and Cascade Rapids men have labored day and night
Matched their strength against the river in its wild and reckless flight
Boats and rafts were beat to splinters but it left men dreams to dream
Of that day when they would conquer the wild and wasted streamUncle Sam took the challenge in the year of '33
For the farmers and the workers and for all humanity
Now river, you can ramble where the sun sets in the sea
But while you're rambling, river, you can do some work for meNow there's full three million horses charges with Coulee' 'lectric power
Day and night they'll run the factory and they never will get tired
Well, a coal mine gets dug out and an oil well it runs dry
But Uncle Sam will find his power where the river meets the sky 

Roll On
Roll on, little ocean.
Roll on, little ocean, roll.
Roll on, little ocean, roll, little ocean, roll.My first boat was a holler log,
Floating down a muddy flat.
Stuck my finger in the quick sand,
And what do you think about that?Second boat was a drift of trees,
Limbs full of water snakes.
I got married to a struttin' matter,
What do you think about that?Roll on, little ocean.
Roll on, little ocean, roll.
Roll on, little ocean, roll, little ocean, roll.Next boat was a packing crate,
St. Paul to New Orleans.
I got married to a wheel stinger,
And what do you think about that?Fourth boat was a wheely paddler,
Nothing more than a blue canoe.
I made love to a mud turtle,
Well what do you think about that?Roll on, little ocean.
Roll on, little ocean, roll.
Roll on, little ocean, roll, little ocean, roll.Fifth boat was a smoky stacker,
Death trap and nothing more,
I married me a milk goat,
What do you think about that?Sixth boat was a steamy splasher,
Iron ore to north Duluth.
My wife was a hoteller,
And what do you think about that?Roll on, little ocean.
Roll on, little ocean, roll.
Roll on, little ocean, roll, little ocean, roll.Seventh boat was a diesel driver,
Half Ann out of Newport News.
I got married to a purple shaft,
And what do you think about that?Eighth boat was a double stack,
Rich folks around the world.
I took up with a dingbat,
What do you think about that?Ninth boat was a battle wagon,
Big guns both fore and aft.
I married me a smudge gullion,
What do you think about that?Tenth boat was a life raft,
About like my holler log.
I married me a flying fish,
And what do you think about that?Last boat was a big shell,
Way down on the ocean floor.
I courted me a ghost galleon,
What do you think about that?Roll on, little ocean.
Roll on, little ocean, roll.
Roll on, little ocean, roll, little ocean, roll. 

Roll On Columbia
Green Douglas firs where the waters cut through.
Down her wild mountains and canyons she flew.
Canadian Northwest to the ocean so blue,
Roll on, Columbia, roll on!: Roll on, Columbia, roll on.
Roll on, Columbia, roll on.
Your power is turning our darkness to dawn,
Roll on, Columbia, roll on.Other great rivers add power to you,
Yakima, Snake and the Klickitat, too,
Sandy Willamette and Hood River, too;
Roll on, Columbia, roll on.Tom Jefferson's vision would not let him rest,
An empire he saw in the Pacific Northwest.
Sent Lewis and Clark and they did the rest;
Roll on, Columbia, roll on.It's there on your bank that we fought many a fight,
Sheridan's boys in the blockhouse that night,
They saw us in death but never in flight,
Roll on, Columbia, roll on.At Bonneville now there are ships in the locks,
The waters have risen and cleared all the rocks,
Shiploads of plenty will steam past the docks,
Roll on, Columbia, roll on.And on up the river is Grand Coulee Dam,
The mightiest thing ever built by a man,
To run these great factories and water the land,
It's roll on, Columbia, roll on.

These might men labored by day and by night,
Matching their strength 'gainst the river's wild flight,
Through rapids and falls they won the hard fight,
Roll on, Columbia, roll on. 

Roll On Little Ocean
Roll on, little ocean.
Roll on, little ocean, roll.
Roll on, little ocean, roll, little ocean, roll.My first boat was a holler log,
Floating down a muddy flat.
Stuck my finger in the quick sand,
And what do you think about that?Second boat was a drift of trees,
Limbs full of water snakes.
I got married to a struttin' matter,
What do you think about that?Roll on, little ocean.
Roll on, little ocean, roll.
Roll on, little ocean, roll, little ocean, roll.Next boat was a packing crate,
St. Paul to New Orleans.
I got married to a wheel stinger,
And what do you think about that?Fourth boat was a wheely paddler,
Nothing more than a blue canoe.
I made love to a mud turtle,
Well what do you think about that?Roll on, little ocean.
Roll on, little ocean, roll.
Roll on, little ocean, roll, little ocean, roll.Fifth boat was a smoky stacker,
Death trap and nothing more,
I married me a milk goat,
What do you think about that?Sixth boat was a steamy splasher,
Iron ore to north Duluth.
My wife was a hoteller,
And what do you think about that?Roll on, little ocean.
Roll on, little ocean, roll.
Roll on, little ocean, roll, little ocean, roll.Seventh boat was a diesel driver,
Half Ann out of Newport News.
I got married to a purple shaft,
And what do you think about that?Eighth boat was a double stack,
Rich folks around the world.
I took up with a dingbat,
What do you think about that?Ninth boat was a battle wagon,
Big guns both fore and aft.
I married me a smudge gullion,
What do you think about that?Tenth boat was a life raft,
About like my holler log.
I married me a flying fish,
And what do you think about that?Last boat was a big shell,
Way down on the ocean floor.
I courted me a ghost galleon,
What do you think about that?Roll on, little ocean.
Roll on, little ocean, roll.
Roll on, little ocean, roll, little ocean, roll. 

Root Hog and Die
Train whells can roll me, cushions can ride,
Ships on the ocean, planes in the skies,
Storms they can come and floodwaters, rise,
But I've got to get to Boston,
root hog and dieNicola Sacco, a shoe-factory hand,
Bartolo Vanzetti, a trade union man,
Judge Webster Thayer swore they'll die,
But I've got to get to Boston 'fore sundown tonight.I might walk around, and I might roll or fly,
Walking down this road shoulder, tears in my eyes,
They never done a wrong in their lives,
But Judge Webster Thayer says they must die.Well, some come to Boston to see all the sights,
Some come to Boston to drink and to fight,
Sacco and Vanzetti told the workers, "Organize."
So Judge Webster Thayer says they must die.Oh, Mr. Wagon Driver, please let me ride,
That's a nice pacing team that you've got here all right.
Did you ever hear such a thing in your life,
Judge Webster Thayer killing two men tonight.Hey, Mr. Engineer, let me ride your train,
Throw in your coal and steam up your steam,
If I can't ride the shack, please let me ride the blind.
Go to get to Boston 'fore sundown tonight. 

Round and Round Hitler's Grave
 

Rubaiyat
Don't give your money, not one penny spend
To learn the secret of your life, my friend
One little hair divides the false and true
And on that little hair, it starts and ends

One hair, I guess, divides the false and true (the false and true)
Find this one hair no matter what you do (what you do)
This hair will lead you to the drinking room
And to the wives of your great landlord too

I rolled in pain down on that sawdust floor (the drinkin' floor)
I prayed to heaven to open its golden door
I groaned and yelled: How long must I here roll? (roll here)
You must roll here till you are you no more (you no more)

I wasted lots of hours in the hot pursuit
Of this and that argument and dispute
Better to kiss the lip with laughin' grapes
Than eating sad or proud or bitter fruit

I'm glad I went off on my big carouse
And took my second wife into my house
Divorced old dried-up reason out of my bed
Took this daughter of the vine to spouse

What is and is not proof I rule in line (I rule in line)
And up and down by logic I define
I guess you thought I was a deep wise man
I never went deep in anything but wine

My drinkin' door eased open late last late (last night late)
I saw a lady with an angel shape (pretty girl)
She handed me a glass of wisdom juice
I drank it down and found the juice was grape

This grapy juice can prove a billion things
Can make our racial haters dance in rings
Can make our seventy-two fightin' priests and princes
Sing sinful songs, and tease my kings and queens (queens and kings both)

If God roiled my good wine, then would he dare (he wouldn't dare)
To make my viney grape a trap an' a snare
I drink my wine and I bless your sweet red mouth
If wine's a curse, well then, who set it there? 

Sally Don't You Grieve
I just got my army call
And I run down to the army hall.
Sally come a-runnin' like a cannonball
And I told her not to grieve after me.It's-a when I'm gone, Sally, don't you grieve
It's-a when I'm gone, Sally, don't you grieve
It's-a when I'm gone, Sally, don't you grieve
And I told her not to grieve after me.I'm a-gonna cross that ocean wide
Army rifle by my side
When Hitler's beat you can be my bride
But I told her not to grieve after me.I'm a-gonna jump in a flyin' machine
A-loaded full of this-a TNT
Stop old Hitler what I mean
And I told her not to grieve after me.A souvenir I'll send to you
Send Hirohito and Hitler, too
That's about all one feller can do
But I told her not to grieve after me.Sally, get a job and save your pay
Work your best for the U.S.A.
Write me a letter 'bout ever' day
And I told her not to grieve after me.If a blackout comes to the old home town
Sally, won't you pull your curtains down
If a shade goes up and a ship goes down
I told her not to grieve after me. © Copyright 1957 (renewed) by Woody Guthrie Publications, Inc. & TRO-Ludlow Music, Inc. (BMI)

Sally Goodin'
Looked down the road, seen my Sally comin'
Thought to my soul I'd kill myself a runnin'.Goin' down the road and the road's mighty muddy
I'm so drunk that I can't stand steady.Watermelon, cantaloupe, peach tree puddin'
Ain't half as sweet as my little Sally Goodin.Stove lid's on, flap jacks a cookin'
Stack 'em up high for my pretty Sally Goodin'.Kiss you all day and hug you all night
Me and my Sally gonna make it all right.Tell you stories and sing you songs
Marry me Sally and you can't go wrong.Possum up a gum stump, dog on the ground,
Pull my trigger and a possum comes down.Bring you sody and bring you candy
Oh, my little Sally, won't that be dandy?As we was watchin' the winding key
Sally got stung by a goggle eyed bee.It's every time you hold my hand
I walk over to the promised land.Sally come a kissin' me on my cheek
I jumped over the Buckeye Creek.What you gonna do when the wind starts a blowin'?
Run straight home with my petticoat a showin'.What you gonna do when the snow starts a flying?
Run home to mama just a squawling and crying.I'm not a lyin' an' I'm not a kiddin'
Crazy 'bout th' gal what you call Sally Goodin.It's the truth, I'll tell you well,
If I can't have Sally, I'm bound for hell.Sally Goodin, Sally Goodin. Sally Goodin. Sally Goodin.
Sally Goodin. Sally Goodin. Sally Goody, Goody, Goodin. 

San Antone Meat House
I work in this meat house in San Antone
You call that Rising Sun
It’s been the graveyard for plenty good people
And I’m just another one. And I’m just another one.Everybody here stays drunk for 24 hourss
Of every new day that dawns
I see more whiskey bottles than I ever see sunshine
In this old San Antonyo Rising Sun. In this old San Antonyo Rising Sun.Take my word good sinner don’t come here for pleasure
For pleasure here I find none;
I giggle for nickles and laff for a dollar
In this meatblock of old San Antone.You get drunk to come here (I stay drunk to stay here);
I forget you the minute you’re gone;
You can’t quite remember how terrible I look
In my meat house in Sanny Antonne.Most guys like you find a different house each time;
You can’t stand too trips to this one;
It’s worse here than in jail or prison
In this Meat House in Sann Antone.There’s only two things in this sad world I need,
My longneck bottle and my spade;
My longneck bottle I will burn out my body
And my spade will dig my grave.Goodbye & Farewell to all that you saw me;
Nobody knew me all my life long;
Nobody ever touched me, nodody ever loved me
In my Meat House in old Sann Anntone. 

Satisfied Now
You jacked me up and you run me down
You nagged at me and you bawled me out
You made me leave town and I'm frisco bound
You'd ought to be satisfied now.You took my silver, you took my gold,
You made me believe every lie that you told
You left me a standing out there in the cold
You'd ought to be satisfied now.I'm down in this gutter I'm hungry, I'm cold,
You're drinking and gambling and wasting our dough
You'll never pay back that money you owe (yes, you owe)
You'd ought to be satisfied now.You went around with whoever you pleased
I stood in the rain in my B. V. D.'s
There was times when I thought I would freeze
You'd ought to be satisfied now.You got a new lover richer than me
You got a car and a boat on the sea
You spend all her money just to go on a spree
You'd ought to be satisfied now.I'm down in this gutter I'm hungry, I'm cold,
You're drinking and gambling and wasting our dough
You'll never pay back that money you owe (yes, you owe)
You'd ought to be satisfied now.I once had a fortune, you took that away,
A thousand cold dollars you spent every day
Tonight I'm a bum on a frisco bound train You'd ought to be satisfied now.

Seamen Three
We were seamen three,
Cisco, Jimmy and me;
Shipped out to beat the fascists
Across the land and sea.We were seamen three,
Cisco, Jimmy and me;
We outsung all o' you Nazis
Across our lands and seas.We were seamen three,
Cisco, Jimmy and me;
We talked up for the NMU
Across our lands and seas.We were seamen three,
Cisco, Jimmy and me;
Outsung all o' you finks and ginks
Across our lands and seas.We were seamen three,
Cisco, Jimmy and me;
Worked to haul that TNT
Across our lands and seas.We were seamen three,
Cisco, Jimmy and me;
If you ever saw one you'd see all three
Across our lands and seas.We were seamen three,
Cisco, Jimmy and me;
Torpedoed twice and robbed with dice
Across our lands and seas.We were seamen three,
Cisco, Jimmy and me;
Not many pretty lasses did we miss
Across our lands and seas.We were seamen three,
Cisco, Jimmy and me;
Ocean's still a-ringin' with songs we sung
Across our lands and seas.We were seamen three,
Cisco, Jimmy and me;
We fight and sing for the Willy McGhees
Across our lands and seas.We were seamen three,
Cisco, Jimmy and me;
Keep a-fightin' and a-singin' till the world gets free
Across my lands and seas.We were seamen three,
Cisco, Jimmy and me;
Gonna keep workin' and a-fightin' for peace
Across my lands and seas.*This song is available in the "Pastures of Plenty: The Unpublished Writings of Woody Guthrie" edited by Harold Leventhal and Dave Marsh along with "Woody, Cisco and Me" by Vincent James Longhi. Both of these books are no longer in print.

Seattle To Chicago
Now we're gonna catch an old freight train out of Seattle, Washington and we're gonna ride her all the way to New York City.First you go down to Seattle there and you catch this old train out of the shed. She goes something like this.Then when you get over there to the other side of the Rocky Mountains where she's coming downhill, she runs something like this.Then when you get up about St. Paul, Minnesota or you're heading down toward Chicago, you catch the Baltimore. Here's the way the Baltimore sounds.Then when you get down there to Chicago, you've got to change over from the Baltimore to the Nickel Plate. So you go down to the freight yards and you ask the night watchman, you say, "Hey mister." 

Secret Of The Sea
Who can guess the secret of the sea?
Who can guess the secret of the sea?
If you can guess the secret of my love for you
We both could know the secret of the seaTell me, could you ever tell the secret of the sea?
Of these high rolling waves along the shore?
The footprints of the lovers that come here to love,
By the tides washed away forever moreWho can guess the secret of the sea?
Who can guess the secret of the sea?
If you can guess the secret of my love for you
We both could know the secret of the seaYou claim to know the secret of a kiss and a hug
And the secret of the grass and of the trees
And if you can tell the secret of a warm friends hand
Then we all would feel the secrets of the sea 

She Came Along to Me
Ten hundred books could I write you about her
Because I felt if I could know her
I would know all women
And they've not been any too well known
For brains and planning and organized thinking
But I'm sure the women are equal
And they may be ahead of the menYet I wouldn't spread such a rumor around
Because one organizes the other
And some times the most lost and wasted
Attract the most balanced and sane
And the wild and the reckless take up
With the clocked and the timed
And the mixture is all of us
And we're still mixingBut never, never, never
Never could have it been done
If the women hadn't entered into the deal
Like she came along to meAnd all creeds and kinds and colors
Of us are blending
Till I suppose ten million years from now
We'll all be just alike
Same color, same size, working together
And maybe we'll have all the fascists
Out of the way by then
Maybe so. 

Shipping Up To Boston
I'm sailor peg
And I've lost my leg
A climbing up the topsails
I've lost my legI'm shipping up to Boston
Shipping off to Boston
Shipping out to Boston
To find my wooden leg 

Sinking of the Reuben James, The
Have you heard of a ship called the good Reuben James
Manned by hard fighting men both of honor and fame?
She flew the Stars and Stripes of the land of the free
But tonight she's in her grave at the bottom of the sea.Tell me what were their names, tell me what were their names,
Did you have a friend on the good Reuben James?
What were their names, tell me, what were their names?
Did you have a friend on the good Reuben JamesWell, a hundred men went down in that dark watery grave
When that good ship went down only forty-four were saved.
'Twas the last day of October we saved the forty-four
From the cold ocean waters and the cold icy shore.It was there in the dark of that uncertain night
That we watched for the U-boats and waited for a fight.
Then a whine and a rock and a great explosion roared
And they laid the Reuben James on that cold ocean floor.Now tonight there are lights in our country so bright
In the farms and in the cities they're telling of the fight.
And now our mighty battleships will steam the bounding main
And remember the name of that good Reuben James. 

Sleep Eye


So Long It's Been Good To Know Yuh
I've sung this song, but I'll sing it again,
Of the place that I lived on the wild windy plains,
In the month called April, county called Gray,
And here's what all of the people there say::
So long, it's been good to know yuh;
So long, it's been good to know yuh;
So long, it's been good to know yuh.
This dusty old dust is a-gettin' my home,
And I got to be driftin' along.A dust storm hit, an' it hit like thunder;
It dusted us over, an' it covered us under;
Blocked out the traffic an' blocked out the sun,
Straight for home all the people did run,
Singin':We talked of the end of the world, and then
We'd sing a song an' then sing it again.
We'd sit for an hour an' not say a word,
And then these words would be heard:Sweethearts sat in the dark and sparked,
They hugged and kissed in that dusty old dark.
They sighed and cried, hugged and kissed,
Instead of marriage, they talked like this:
"Honey..."Now, the telephone rang, an' it jumped off the wall,
That was the preacher, a-makin' his call.
He said, "Kind friend, this may the end;
An' you got your last chance of salvation of sin!"The churches was jammed, and the churches was packed,
An' that dusty old dust storm blowed so black.
Preacher could not read a word of his text,
An' he folded his specs, an' he took up collection,
Said:So long, it's been good to know yuh;
So long, it's been good to know yuh;
So long, it's been good to know yuh.
This dusty old dust is a-gettin' my home,
And I got to be driftin' along. 

So Long It's Been Good To Know Yuh (WWII Version)
I got the news that the war had begun
It was straight for the Army Hall that I run
And all of the people in my home town
Was a running up and a running down
Singing:: So long, it's been good to know you
So long, it's been good to know you
So long, it's been good to know you
There's a mighty big war that's got to be won
And we'll get back together again.The crowd was packed by the railroad track
People was yelling and patting my back
And while the engineer rung his bell
I hugged all the mothers and kissed all the gals,
Singing:I got to the camp and I learnt how to fight
Fascists in daytime, mosquitoes at night
I got my orders to cross o'er the sea
So I waved "goodbye" to the girls I could see,
Singing:I got on a boat and I started to float
My old pack-sack and my big wool coat
With ten thousand men we rode the foam
And sung this song to the people back home:I landed somewhere on a fighting shore
With ten million soldiers and ten million more
And while we were chasing that Super Race
We sung this song in the chase.
It was:So it won't be long till the fascists are gone
And all of their likes are finished and done
We'll throw the clods of dirt in their face
And walk away from that lonesome place
Singing: 

Someday Some Morning Sometime
Someday, some morning sometime, sometime
I'd like to hold your hand in mine,
Someday, some morning, sometimeI'd like to tell you you're pretty and fine,
Your face will smile and your eyes will shine
Someday, some morning, sometimeI'll build you a house all covered in vines,
I'll bring you a nickel, I'll bring you a dime,
Someday, some morning, sometimeFive six seven and eight oh nine
I'll take you down where the birds fly by
Someday, some morning, sometime 

Sowing On The Mountain
Sowing on the mountain, Reaping in the valley;
Sowing on the mountain, Reaping in the valley;
Sowing on the moun tain, Reaping in the valley,
You're gonna reap just what you sow.God gave Noah the rainbow sign
God gave Noah the rainbow sign
God gave Noah the rainbow sign
It won't be water, but fire next time.Won't be water, but fire next time
Won't be water, but fire next time
Won't be water, but fire next time
God gave Noah the rainbow sign. 

Stackolee
Stackolee was a bad man, everybody knows
Spent a hundred dollars for just one suit of clothes
He was a bad man, that mean old Stackolee

Stackolee loaded cotton, weighed five hundred pounds
Carried along a Gatling gun, that drug him to the ground
He was a bad man, that mean old Stackolee

It was in a hustling b-joint where the Mississippi run
Stackolee killed Billy de Lyons with a smoking forty-one
He was a bad man, that mean old Stackolee

The high sheriff asked the deputy, "How can it be
You can arrest everybody, but the mean old Stackolee?
He's a bad man, that mean old Stackolee."

And the deputy told the new sheriff, "Double up my fee,
And I'll go get that outlaw, by the name of Stackolee
'Cause he's a bad man, that mean old Stackolee."

Gentlemen of the jury, what do you think about that?
Stackolee killed Billy de Lyons about a five dollar Stetson hat
He was a bad man, that mean old Stackolee

Billy was in the card house and kneeling on the floor
Stackolee pulled the trigger of his red-hot forty-four
He was a bad man, that mean old Stackolee

Billy said to Stackolee, "Please don't take my life,
I've got three little babes and a darling loving wife
You're a bad man, your name is Stackolee"

"What do I care about your two little babes, your darling loving wife?
You done stole my brand new hat and I'm bound to take your life
'Cause you're a bad man, and my name is Stackolee"

Billy died in the sawdust, with his head upon the rail
Deputy took old Stackolee and he marched him off to jail
He was a bad man, that mean old Stackolee

The judge said, "Mr. Stackolee, Mr. Stackolee
I'm gonna hang your body up and set your spirit free
'Cause you're a bad man, your name is Stackolee"

Stackolee on his gallows, his head way up high
Twelve o'clock we killed him, was all glad to see him die
He was a bad man, that mean old Stackolee
He was a bad man, that mean old Stackolee 

Stepstone
I stood on the stepstone when school days was over
And longed for the time to go by,
Now that it's gone I stand here tonight
To bid this old stepstone goodbye.Goodbye to my stepstone, goodbye to my home,
God bless the ones that I leave with a sigh;
Fields will be whitening
And I will be gone to ramble this wide world alone.I stand on my stepstone at eventide now,
The wind whistles by with a moan;
How did it start and I stand here tonight,
Good bye to my stepstone and home.Goodbye to my stepstone, goodbye to my home,
God bless the ones that I leave with a sigh;
Fields will be whitening
And I will be gone to ramble this wide world alone.It's hard to be parted from those that we love,
When reverses in fortune have come;
The world's strongest heart strings have broken in twain,
By the absence of loved ones and home.Goodbye to my stepstone, goodbye to my home,
God bless the ones that I leave with a sigh;
Fields will be whitening
And I will be gone to ramble this wide world alone. 

Stetson Kennedy
I done spent my last three cents
Mailing my letter to the president
I didn't make a show, I didn't make a dent
So I'm swinging over to this independent gent
Stetson Kennedy
Writing his name inI cain't win out to save my soul
Long as Smathers-Dupont's got me in the hole
Them war profit boys are squawking and balking
That's what's got me out here walking and talking
Knocking on doors and windows
Wake up and run down election morning
And scribble in Stetson KennedyI ain't the world's best writer nor the world's best speller
But when I believe in something I'm the loudest yeller
If we fix it so's you can't make money on war
We'll all forget what we're killing folks for
We'll find us a peace job equal and free
Dump Smathers-Dupont in a salty sea
Well, this makes Stetson Kennedy the man for me 

Suassos Lane
Suassos Lane is just an alley
Up here in old north Plymouth,
You saw my fish cart
Roll here is Suassos Lane.: Goodbye my comrades,
Goodbye my north Plymouth,
Goodbye to Boston harbor,
Goodbye to Suassos Lane.They said I killed him,
Said I killed the payroll carrier,
Over in South Braintree,
Thirty-Five miles from Suassos Lane.My name's Lefevre Brini.
On the same day, Bart Vanzetti
Brought fish to Cherry Court,
One block from Suassos Lane.My name is Joseph Rosen.
I am a woolen peddler.
I sold Vanzetti a roll of cloth
This day in Suassos Lane.I'm Mrs. Alphonsine Brini.
Mister Rosen and Cart Vanzetti
Showed me the cloth with the big holes in it
One block from Suassos Lane.My name is Melvin Corl.
I was painting my fishing schooner.
Vanzetti talked to me an hour
A mile or so from Suassos Lane.How could I be in South Braintree
Killing men in front of the factory,
When all these friends and others saw me
Cart my fish up Suassos Lane?I tell you working people
Fight hard for higher wages,
Fight to kill black market prices;
This is why you take my life.I tell you working people
Fight hard for cleaner houses,
Fight hard for wife and children;
That's why you took my life. 

Suffer Little Children Come Unto Me
There once was a man in the holy land
Had nails in his feet.  Had nails in his hands.
Said mother and father I say unto thee
O’ suffer little children to come unto me.You learn about hogs, you learn about sheep -
You learn about dogs, you learn how to eat -
You learn about cars, I say unto thee
O’ suffer little children to come unto me.You learn to be doctors, you learn to read law
You learn how to ajudge and to pick every flaw
You go to your college and buy a degree
O ’suffer little children to come unto me.You lean to opine and to philosophize
To argue and chatter and so criticize –
The sun and the moon and this astrology
O ’suffer little children to come unto me.You learn about numbers and dollars and cents
The years of your life o’ so foolishly spent –
Bear this in mind as you lay doon to dee
O ’suffer little children to come unto me. 

Sun Jumped Up, The
The sun jumped up in the middle of the east at five fifteen this morning
The wife jumped up to feed the kid at five fifteen this morning
The sun jumped up in the middle of the eastAnd the wife jumped up in the middle of the bed
And I jumped up in the middle of a dream at five fifteen this morningThe woman got the kid all fed by six fifteen this morning
And I had done made up our bed at six fifteen this morning
The baby played on dancing feet and the woman stirred up a bite to eat
But that dream still pounded in my head at six fifteen this morningI walked to work and the sun got warm at seven fifteen this morning
I held my lunch pail under my arm at seven fifteen this morning
That dream kept ringing in my ear and getting plainer and coming clearer
Getting bigger and drawing near at seven fifteen this morningI guess you know how some dreams are at eight fifteen this morning
You can't remember what they are at eight fifteen this morning
I scratched my head at the factory gate and I run to keep from being late
And the clock said fifteen after eight at eight fifteen this morningI waved to the boss and I talked to my friends at nine fifteen this morning
I was fishing around inside my brain at nine fifteen this morning
I seen my dream like a haze or a snatch or a blaze from some old fiery match
But the rest of my dream I could not catch at nine fifteen this morningSo at fifteen minutes after ten or ten fifteen this morning
I told my trouble to all my friends at ten fifteen this morning
I told them my dream was as plain as day and how it run like a rabbit away
They said, "Keep trying if it takes all day!" at ten fifteen this morning

Sweet And Bitter Bowl
I ride the fastest horse and ships;
I sip the sweetest warmest lips;
I deck myself with the prettiest clothes;
But my true love is frozen cold.Those soldiers bold have tried of me;
Sailormen that sailed the sea;
Pioneers have broke my soils,
But my true love is frozen cold.If you would open and raise my soul
If you would pass my gates and doors
If you'd unlock my frozen loves,
Just drink my sweet and my bitter bowlSummer's lovers I have tried,
Fair weather soldiers in their pride;
The fat, the slim, the tall, the fair,
But none did comb my tangled hair.When I do find my one of all,
I'll dance my joy and sing my call;
My mountain and tree will see us roll
To break these locks that chain my soul.If my eyes tell you that you're this one,
My lifetime long and hungry one,
I'll kiss our key that brings you in
And I'll forget your greatest sin.When I hold you warm in hand
And walk you through creation's land,
Love me like our easiest breeze
That kisses our sun in my windburnt trees.This wild grass is our document;
This bed of leaves our free permit;
Our vow is laughed in lakes and pools,
Our wedding rings are dewdrop jewels.For you I'll hunger most and worst;
You'll be my hottest driest thirst;
You are my fire that never dies;
My soul is in your hands and eyes.I am your battles still to fight;
I'll be your roughest day and night;
I'll take from you your hardest sweat
And pay you in words not sung nor said. 

Sweetest Angel
Every night about eight o'clock
I wind the stem of my little clock
And when I look in the crystal glass
I see a lot of faces pass
Of those I knew
And those I know
And you now coming
And you to go

Here's a word I'd like to whisper
And I'd like to have you listen

: All this world is made of love
You are fresh from heaven above
You're the sweetest angel in this world
You're the sweetest angel in this world
You're the sweetest angel in this world
You're the sweetest angel

When I hold you by your hand
I'm in my happy promised land
When I kiss you in the dark
I'm just happy as a lark
So let me come as close as I can
And lay me down beside you

Here's a word I'd like to whisper
And I'd like to have you listen



So let me come as close as I can
Let me bring my scattered pages
Let me lay down here beside you
Tonight, and I will whisper

 

Swimmy Swim
I like to swim in my water,
I like to swim in my water,
Water, water and water
Swim, swim, swimmy, I swim.
Swim, swim, swimmy, I swim, I swim.
Swim, swim, swimmy, I swim, oh swim.
Swim, swim, swimmy, I swim, I swim.
Swim, swim, swimmy, I swim, I swim.I like to kick in my water,
Oh I like to kick in my water,
Water, water and water
And swim, swim, swimmy, I swim.I like to splash in my water,
And I like to splash in my water,
Like to splash in my water,
And swim, swim, swimmy, I swim.I like to float in my water,
And I like to float in my water,
Like to float in my water
And I swim, swim, swimmy, I swim. 

Takin It Easy
I bought me a paper cause I wanted to know
Just what to do when the sireenz blow.
If the atom bomb misses me I don't want ta fall down
A big sewer drain like an open manhole.I'ma takin' it easy, I'ma takin' it slow.
Ain'ta gonna hurry when the sireenz blow.That bigeye girl alivin' right next door
Beena tryin' ta connect for a year or more;
Practice whistle blew an' I flew downstairs.
She said, "Slow down, man!" She grabb'd a han'fulla hair.I'ma takin' it easy, I'ma takin' it slow.
Ain'ta gonna hurry when the sireenz blow.Town's pitch dark, we cain't light no light;
The ole shelter hole's a lot blacker than night;
Babe O' Baby, anda Man O' Man!
Holdin' hands in th' dark! Both of us feelin' right.I'ma takin' it easy, I'ma takin' it slow.
Ain'ta gonna hurry when the sireenz blow.I shook like a leaf on the wind th't blows;
Shivvered and I shimmied from my head to m'toes;
I broke in such a hot sweat I soaked my clothes;
She purred just like a kittenkat diggin' in close.I'ma takin' it easy, I'ma takin' it slow.
Ain'ta gonna hurry when the sireenz blow.It may be a terrible thing ta stay;
FBI might lay me in th' jail this day;
But, her perfume smell'd sweet alla 'round,
I'ma prayin' that all clear toot don't sound!I'ma takin' it easy, I'ma takin' it slow.
Ain'ta gonna hurry when the sireenz blow.She wiggled and oozed in closer ta me;
I felt her permamene wave abrushin' my shirtsleeve;
Felt her hot breath afoggin' up against my neck;
Mu hand was hot enuff ta cook a hard boiled egg.Yes, that All Clear blowed and we signed for peace;
We got married just as perty as ya doggone place;
Six kids we've got achasin' round our place;
We keep our skillet jist slick as grease.I'ma takin' it easy, I'ma takin' it slow.
Ain'ta gonna hurry when the sireenz blow.If this atombomb chases you down in a hole,
If it looks too dark to suit your soul,
Just grab on tight an' give an easy squeeze;
You'll slide into Glory where they've all got peace.I'ma takin' it easy, I'ma takin' it slow.
Ain'ta gonna hurry when the sireenz blow.*The recorded version of this song has not yet been released.

Talking Centralia
I'm just a miner in a mining town
I dig like a mole in a hole in the ground
When the sun comes up til the sun goes down
I don't see much sun when I'm down in the groundSoft coal and hard coal and lead and zinc and all other kinds of hard stuff
It's a hard living.Got up this morning in the same old way
Dropped my hot coffee to start off my day
My wife give me breakfast in her stocking feet
And I kissed the kids in bed and then I walked down the streetJust walking along watching the sun come up, I was just thinking and wondering
Wondering and thinking.Centralia here is a pretty little town
You can see Illinois for miles around
Can't see too good with my eyes full of sleep, though
I'm gonna quit mining someday and I'm gonna sleep 'bout a weekJust solid sleep
Hard down, hard up
Good old warm sleepDream myself up a lot of pretty dreams
About pretty mine holes and pretty mine bosses
And pretty mine owners and pretty women all over the placeMost men don't talk what's eatin' on their minds
About different ways of dying down here in the mines
But every morning we walk along and joke
About the mines caving in, the dust and the smokeAnd one little wild spark of fire
Blowing us sky high and crooked
One little spark blowing us cross-eyed and crazy
Up to shake hands with all the Lord's little angelsWell, I knock at the gate and stand and laugh
And the elevator man drops us down his shaft
We scatter and kneel and crawl different places
With fumes in our eyes and dust on our facesGas on our stomach and water on our kneecap,
Aches and pains and rheumatism, all kinds of crazy pictures flying through our heads
Well, a spark did hit us in the number five
I don't know if anybody ever did come out alive
I got carried out with a busted head
The lady said there's a hundred and eleven was deadWell, this ain't my first explosion
I come through two cave-ins and two more fires before this one
Twenty-two dead down in Ohio and thirty-six I seen in Kentucky laid up
And a hundred and eleven here in CentraliaWell, it seems like the very best men go down
And don't come back in these mining towns
Keep on a-wondering how things would be
If a cave-in had come to the senator's seatOr a big explosion of some kind was to go off up there in them Congress walls
Wonder what sort of words and messages that they'd write on their slates
Wonder if they'd hire anybody to come down to them Senate chambers and put in some safety devices,
Nine hundred dollars worthThink there's just about enough loose gas around that Capitol dome up there, though
To make a mighty big blow if a spark ever hits it just right 

Talking Columbia
I was down 'long the river, just settin' on a rock,
Lookin' at the boats in Bonneville Lock.
And the gate swings open and the boat sails in,
Toots her whistle, she's gone a gin'!Well, I fills up my hat brim, drunk a sweet taste,
Thought 'bout the river goin' to waste,
Thought 'bout the dust, thought 'bout the sand,
Thought 'bout the people, thought 'bout the land.
Ever'body runnin' round all over creation,
Just lookin' for some kind of a little place.Pulled out my pencil, scribbled this song,
I figgered all these salmon fishers can't be wrong.
Them salmon fish, they're mighty shrewd,
They got senators, politicians, too!
Just like a President, they run ever' four years.Yes, them folks back east are doin' a lot o' talkin',
Some of 'em balkin' and some of 'em squawkin'
But with all their figgerin' and all their books,
Well, they just didn't know them raw Chinooks.
Salmon! That's a good river!Just watch this river and pretty soon
Ever'body's goin' to be changin' their tune.
The big Grand Coulee and Bonneville Dam
Run a thousand factories for Uncle Sam.
An' ever'body else in the world
Makin' ever'thing from sewing machines to fertilizer
Atomic bedrooms!... Plastic!
Everything's gonna be made out of plastic!Yes, Uncle Sam needs wool, Uncle Sam needs wheat,
Uncle Sam needs houses and stuff to eat,
Uncle Sam needs water and power dams,
Uncle Sam needs people and people needs land.
Don't like dictators not much, myself,
But I think the whole country ought to be run
By electricity! 

Talking Dust Bowl Blues
Back in Nineteen Twenty-Seven,
I had a little farm and I called that heaven.
Well, the prices up and the rain come down,
And I hauled my crops all into town --
I got the money, bought clothes and groceries,
Fed the kids, and raised a family.Rain quit and the wind got high,
And the black ol' dust storm filled the sky.
And I swapped my farm for a Ford machine,
And I poured it full of this gas-i-line --
And I started, rockin' an' a-rollin',
Over the mountains, out towards the old Peach Bowl.Way up yonder on a mountain road,
I had a hot motor and a heavy load,
I's a-goin' pretty fast, there wasn't even stoppin',
A-bouncin' up and down, like popcorn poppin' --
Had a breakdown, sort of a nervous bustdown of some kind,
There was a feller there, a mechanic feller,
Said it was en-gine trouble.Way up yonder on a mountain curve,
It's way up yonder in the piney wood,
An' I give that rollin' Ford a shove,
An' I's a-gonna coast as far as I could --
Commence coastin', pickin' up speed,
Was a hairpin turn, I didn't make it.Man alive, I'm a-tellin' you,
The fiddles and the guitars really flew.
That Ford took off like a flying squirrel
An' it flew halfway around the world --
Scattered wives and childrens
All over the side of that mountain.We got out to the West Coast broke,
So dad-gum hungry I thought I'd croak,
An' I bummed up a spud or two,
An' my wife fixed up a tater stew --
We poured the kids full of it,
Mighty thin stew, though,
You could read a magazine right through it.
Always have figured
That if it'd been just a little bit thinner,
Some of these here politicians
Coulda seen through it. 

Talking Empty Bed Blues
My neighbors all see me stumblin’ home;
They c’n see there’s somethin’ perty bad wrong;
They hear me singin’ th’ wrong kinda song;
Just ‘cause my bed’s been empty too long.My birds sing loud ‘cause I told them all
To get on th’ beam and git on th’ ball
And ta bring you here so’s I c’n rest my head
And t’ warm my old empty bedThis empty bed of mine is my worst curse;
It hurts you a little and it hurts me worse;
It hurts the vine that climbs my post;
But my empty bed hurts me the most.I’ma prayin’ anda prayin’ perty soon your head
Will come andput an end to my empty old bed;
Ifya don’t come soon I’m apt ta be dead;
Or just’s god’s dead, my empty old bed. 

Talking Fishing Blues
I went down to the fishing hole,
And I set down with my fishing pole;
Somethin' grabb'd my hook and it got my bait
And Jerked me out in the middle of the lake.
Huh it was some jump boy,
I got sunk, kinda baptized on credit.Fishin' down on th' muddy bank,
Felt a pull an' give a big yank,
I drug out three old rubber boots,
A Ford radiator an' a Chevrolet coop
(Nothin' but Junk, so I handed it in
For National Defence).Settin' in a boat with a bucket of beer,
Hadn't caught nuthin' but didn't much care,
I guess I was pretty well satisfied,
Had my little woman right by my side
(Takin' it easy, just waitin'
Worm been gone off-a that hook for a couple of hours.
I was busy).When you go fishin', tell y' what to do,
Go set down by the grassy dew,
Take a piece of string, tie it on yo' pole,
Throw it way out in th' middle of th' hole.
Find you a good shady tree and then just set down.
(Go to sleep, forget all about it
Can't catch nuthin' here anyways.)Well I walked out to a sandy bar,
And I caught myself a big alligator gar,
Drug him home across my back,
Tail was dragging a mile and a half,
Flippin' an' floppin'. I sold him for a quarter.
(Shot craps, got in Jall.)Jumped in the river and went down deep,
There was a hundred pound cat-fish lying there asleep,
Well I jumped on his back and rode him all aroun'
Saddled him up and I came into town.
People came runnin', lookin', dogs a-barkin'
(Kids a-squallin').Early one mornin' I took me a notion,
To go out fishin' in the middle of the ocean,
Well, throwed me a line, I got me a shark,
I didn't get him home till way past dark.
(Was he a man-eater, tough customer.
But he wasn't quite tough enough.)Late last night I had me a dream,
I was out fishin' in a whiskey stream,
Baited my hook with apple-jack,
Threw out a drink, drug a gallon back.
(Done pretty good till the creek run dry.
I give the fish back to the finance company.) 

Talking Hard Work
While we're on the subject of hard work
I just wanted to say that I always was a man to work.I was born working and I worked my way up by hard work.
I ain't never go nowhere yet but I got there by hard work:
Work of the hardest kind.
I been down and I been out
And I've been busted, disgusted and couldn't be trusted.
I worked my way up and I worked my way down.I've been drunk and I've been sober. I've had hard times and I got hijacked
And been robbed for cash and robbed for credit.
Worked my way into jail and outta jail
And I woke up alotta mornings and I didn't even know where I was at.But the hardest work I ever done is when I was trying to get myself
a worried woman to ease my worried mind.
Now I'm gonna tell you just about how much hard work I had to do to get this here
women that I'm a-tellin you about.I shook hands with 97 of her kinfolks and her blood relatives and I
done the same with 86 people that was just her friends and her neighbors.
Kissed 73 babies and put dry pants on 34 of em' as well as others
And done the same thing several times - as well as a lot of other things
just about like this.I held 125 head of wild horses, put saddles and bridles on more that that,
harnessed some of the craziest, wildest teams in the whole country.
I rode 14 loco broncos to a dead standstill and let 42 hound dogs lick me all over.
Seven times I was bit by hungry dogs and I was chewed all to pieces by
water moccasins and rattlesnakes on two separate river bottoms.
I chopped and I carried 314 armloads of stove wood, 100 buckets of coal,
and I carried a gallon of kerosene 18 miles over the mountains, got lost,
lost a pair of shoes in a mud hole.
And I chopped and I weeded 48 rows of short cotton, 13 acres of bad corn
and cut sticker weeds out of 11 back yards.
All on accounta' cause I wanted to show her that I was a man a I liked to work.I cleaned out 9 barnloads and cranked 31 automobiles, all makes and models.
Pulled 3 cars out of mud holes and 4 out of snowdrifts.
I dug 5 cisterns of water for some of her friends and neighbors
and run all kinds of errands.I played the fiddle for 9 churches meetings and I joined 11 separate denominations.
I signed up and joined up for 7 of the best trade unions I could find
And paid my dues about 6 weeks ahead of time.Waded 40 miles of swamps, 60 big rivers,
Walked across 2 mountain ranges and crossed three deserts.
I got the fever and I got sunstroke and I got malaria and I got the flu
and I got moonstruck and skeeter bit, the poison ivy and the 7 year itch
and the blind staggers.I was given up for lost and dead about 2 dozen times.
Struck by lightning, struck by Congress, struck by friends and kinfolks
as well as by three cars on the highways and a lotta times in peoples hen-houses.
I been hit and run down and run over and walked on and knocked around
And I'm just settin' here now trying to study up what else I can do to show
that woman that I still ain't afraid of hard work. 

Talking Merchant Marine
In bed with my woman, just singin' the blues,
Heard the radio tellin' the news:
That the big Red Army took a hundred towns,
And Allies droppin' them two-ton bombs.
Started hollerin', yellin', dancin' up and down like a bullfrog!I'm just one of the merchant crew,
I belong to the union called the N. M. U.
I'm a union man from head to toe,
I'm U. S. A. and C. I. O.
Fightin' out here on the waters to win some freedom on the land.*This song is available in the "Pastures of Plenty: The Unpublished Writings of Woody Guthrie" edited by Harold Leventhal and Dave Marsh. This book is no longer in print. 

Talking Sailor
In bed with my women just a singing the blues,
And I heard the radio a telling the news,
Said the big Red army took a hundred towns,
And the Allies dropping them two ton bombs.
I started hollering, yelling.
Dancing up and down like a bullfrog.Doorbell rung in come a man,
I signed my name, I got a telegram.
Says,"If you want to take a vacation trip,
Got a dish-washing job on a liberty ship."
Woman a crying. Me a flying.
Out the door and down the line.'Bout two minutes I run ten blocks,
I come to my ship down at the docks.
Walked up the plank and I signed my name,
Blowed the whistle and was gone again.
Right on out and down the stream.
Ships as far as my eye could see.
Pulling away.Ship loaded down with T.N.T.
All out across the rolling sea.
I stood on the deck and watched the fishes swim,
I was a-praying them fishes wasn't made of tin.
Sharks. Porpoises.
Jelly beans, rainbow trouts, mud-cats, jew-gars,
All over that water.This convoy's the biggest I ever did see,
It stretches all the way out across the sea.
The ships blow their whistles and ring their bells,
Gonna blow them Fascists all to Hell.
Win some freedom. Liberty.
Stuff like that.Walked to the tail, stood on the stern,
Looking at the big brass screw-blade turn,
Listened to the sound of the engines pond:
Came sixteen feet every time it went round.
Gets closer and closer.
Look out, you Fascists!I'm just one of the merchant crew,
I belong to the union called the N.M.R.
I'm a union man from head to toe,
I'm U.S.A. and C.I.O.
Fighting out here on the waters.
Win some freedom. On the land. 

Talking Subway
I struck out for old New York,
Thought I'd find me a job of work.
One leg up and the other leg down,
I come in through a hole in the ground.
Holland Tunnel. Three mile tube.
Skippin' through the Hudson River dew.I blowed into New York town,
And I looked up and I looked down,
Everybody I seen on the streets
Was all a running down in a hole in the ground.
I follered 'em. See where they's a going.
Newsboy said they're tryin' to smoke a rat out of a hole.I run down thirty eight flights of stairs,
Boy, howdy! I declare!
I rode old elevator twenty two
And spent my last lone nickel, too.
Feller in a little cage got it.
Herded me through a shoot the shoot.
Run me through three clothes wringers.
So many people down in there I couldn't even fall down.I swung onto my old guitar,
Train come a rumbling down the track,
I got shoved into the wrong damn car
With three grass widows on my back.
Two of 'em looking for home relief,
Other one just investigating. 

Tea Bag Blues
Well, it’s awful cold outside
And I’m cold at home tonight
Walkin up an’ down my my poor self
God you now this just ain’t rightGonna boil myself a tea bag
Gonna boil myself a tea bag
And If you’ll moze above my way
I’ll boil you off a tea bag tooWell, I come from Oklahoma
Where that dust and gravel blow
I’ve got gals with boozeleg rotgut
But I never did learn to knowJust how to boil off a tea bag
How to simmer up a tea bag
And if you’ll ease over my way
I will boil you off a tea bag, tooI rode the trains and the busses
I rode the rods, I rode the blinds
Hit every kind of bag and satchel
I used every bait I could findNever did think ‘bout no tea bag
Never did see no tea bag
But if you’ll ooze over closer
I will boil you off a tea bag, too
Yes, I willI’ve used beer, and wine, and coffee
Buttermilk, soda and rum
And I rolled them every color
Seen them go before they comeLearnin’ how to use a tea bag
How to dip a tea bag
If you sneak over my way
I’m gonna strain your little tea bag too
Yeah, baby, that’s a promiseLearnin how to dip my tea bag
How to soak up my tea bag
And I’m up north in New York City
Singin’ my lonesome tea bag blues 

The Flood and the Storm
Sacco had come from the mountains of Italy,
Had a wife and children three;
Vanzetti sold fish on the streets of North Plymouth,
Was a writer of workers's poetry.The world shook harder on the night they died
Than 'twas shaken by that Great World's War;
More millions did march for Sacco and Vanzetti
Than did march for the great War Lords.More millions did pray, more millions they did sing,
This August night in nineteen twenty-seven,
When strapped there in that chair they did die.More millions saw the light, more walked into the fight,
And more from shore unto shore
Than ever did fight for the rich man's hire
Or dress in the warrior's uniform.The peasants, the farmers, the towns, and the cities,
The hills and the valley they did ring,
Hindenburg, Wilson, Harding, Hoover, Coolidge
Never heard this many voices sing.The zig-zag lightnings, the rumbles of the thunder,
The singing of the clouds blowing by,
The flood and the storm for Sacco and Vanzetti
Caused the rich man o pull his hair and cry. 

The Great Dust Storm
On the 14th day of April of 1935,
There struck the worst of dust storms that ever filled the sky.
You could see that dust storm comin', the cloud looked deathlike black,
And through our mighty nation, it left a dreadful track.From Oklahoma City to the Arizona line,
Dakota and Nebraska to the lazy Rio Grande,
It fell across our city like a curtain of black rolled down,
We thought it was our judgement, we thought it was our doom.The radio reported, we listened with alarm,
The wild and windy actions of this great mysterious storm;
From Albuquerque and Clovis, and all New Mexico,
They said it was the blackest that ever they had saw.From old Dodge City, Kansas, the dust had rung their knell,
And a few more comrades sleeping on top of old Boot Hill.
From Denver, Colorado, they said it blew so strong,
They thought that they could hold out, but they didn't know how long.Our relatives were huddled into their oil boom shacks,
And the children they was cryin' as it whistled through the cracks.
And the family it was crowded into their little room,
They thought the world had ended, and they thought it was their doom.The storm took place at sundown, it lasted through the night,
When we looked out next morning, we saw a terrible sight.
We saw outside our window where wheat fields they had grown
Was now a rippling ocean of dust the wind had blown.It covered up our fences, it covered up our barns,
It covered up our tractors in this wild and dusty storm.
We loaded our jalopies and piled our families in,
We rattled down that highway to never come back again.

The Jolly Banker
My name is Tom Cranker and I'm a jolly banker,
I'm a jolly banker, jolly banker am I.
I safeguard the farmers and widows and orphans,
Singin' I'm a jolly banker, jolly banker am I.When dust storms are sailing, and crops they are failing,
I'm a jolly banker, jolly banker am I.
I check up your shortage and bring down your mortgage,
Singin' I'm a jolly banker, jolly banker am I.When money you're needing, and mouths you are feeding,
I'm a jolly banker, jolly banker am I.
I'll plaster your home with a furniture loan,
Singin' I'm a jolly banker, jolly banker am I.If you show me you need it, I'll let you have credit,
I'm a jolly banker, jolly banker am I.
Just bring me back two for the one I lend you,
Singin' I'm jolly banker, jolly banker am I.When your car you're losin', and sadly your cruisin',
I'm a jolly banker, jolly banker am I.
I'll come and forclose, get your car and your clothes,
Singin' I'm jolly banker, jolly banker am I.When the bugs get your cotton, the times they are rotten,
I'm jolly banker, jolly banker am I.
I'll come down and help you, I'll rake you and scalp you,
Singin' I'm jolly banker, jolly banker am I.When the landlords abuse you, or sadly misuse you,
I'm jolly banker, jolly banker am I.
I'll send down the police chief to keep you from mischief,
Singin' I'm jolly banker, jolly banker am I. 

The Many and the Few
My name is King Cyrus, my order I give,
You Jews can go back to your home
To build your holy temple again
In the land of Palestine.We’ve sung and danced o’er the hot rocky roads
Back to Eretz Yisroel’s land
We worked with plow and rake and hoe
And we blessed the works of our handsMy name is Ezra the Teacher man
I brought my scroll book along
I brought my flock to Yisroel
From that land called BabylonI’ll read you my Talmud Torah book
And the prophet’s dreams to you
And you’ll be fertile and multiply
If you keep your Torah trueMy name is Alexander the Great
More than half of this wide world is mine
Come stand around, my servants all
I’m wrapped on my bed here to dieAs the King of Syria and Palestine
Antiochus the Fourth, you’ll stand
To kill the Jews if they refuse
To worship our idols and godsMy name is Hannah, my first born son
Now stands before this king
Guilty of keeping the Sabbath laws
By the soldiers I see him slainIt’s one by one my seven sons
In front of my eyes cut down
For keeping to the Torah laws
I pay with my warm blood nowMy name is Mattathias, I’ve got five sons
In Modin City we dwell
They tried to make me bow down to their gods
Two of the King’s flunkeys I killedA hundred or more who’ll fight to be Jews
Did come to these hills with me
On my death bed your leader I’ll name
‘Tis Judah, the MacabeeMy name is Judah, the Macabee
By the name of the hammer I’m called
We’ll pray to God before every fight
Till all of our enemies fallAppolonius, the Governor, this day I killed
And his army we did bust
Some few of his soldiers run away in the wind
But most we’ve dropped dead in the dustSyron is my name, from Syria came
To destroy that fool Macabee
My army was great, his army was small
But he somehow did win over meTo deliver the many to the hands of his few
For God this is no trick at all
In a few short hours my army did break
And we flooded this valley with bloodMy name is Lysias, I dreamed up a plan
To burn the Jews tents as they slept
When I got there, their tents were all bare
And the Macabee’s army had leftHe stormed my own camp as my soldiers did sleep
And he killed several thousand in fear
My elephants, my horsemen, my footsoldiers, all
Judah hammered them down from the rearMy name is Jerusalem where Judah came back
To build up my Temple once more
To cut down the weeds and thorny brush
That grows ‘round my windows and doorsWhole stones, whole stones, we’ll build and pray
To God as a wholehearted Jew
God’s love the hateful many did place
In the hands of a God loving fewWe found in our temple a little oil jug
Just enough for the lamps for one night
That one little jug burned Eight whole days
And it kept our new temple in lightEight candles we’ll burn and a Ninth one too
Every New Year that comes and goes
We’ll think of the many in the hands of the few
And thank God we are seeds of the Jews 

The New York Trains
My wife come in this morning from Texas down the line
In the Big Grand Central Station the clock was striking nine.
She rode the Southwest Limited on the New York Central road
She chartered sixteen coaches and she brought the kids along.We rode the bus and subways all over New York Town
To rent us an apartment and try to settle down
The trains run through the buildings and also underground
And you spend another nickel every time you turn around.The subway trains are crowded and when they made a stop
You’re at the wrong dern station when the crowds they push you off
They heave and push and squeeze and squirm, they slip and slide and crowd
And when your station comes along, well then you caint get out.We hooked a train and rode an hour to see the Bronx Park Zoo
And landed out in Brooklyn on Utica Avenue
You got to change your subway train at every stop or two
And every time you come out wearing a different pair of shoes.We loaded in a taxi to haul us crost the town
And it registered a nickel everytime the wheel went ‘round
He charged us ‘leven dollars and eighty seven cent
And down in Texas that’s enough to pay six months of rent.Now friend if you are from the South or either way out West
And got a wife and children that you love your very best
If you come to New York City, I wish you very well,
You’d better bring a wagon load of greenback dollar bills. 

The Note of Hope
The note of hope is the only note
That can keep us from falling to the bottom of the heap of evolution
Because, largely, about all a human being is anyway
Is just, a hoping machine. 

The Song of the Grand Coulee Dam


The Unwelcome Guest
To the rich man's bright lodges I ride in this wind
On my good horse I call you my shiny Black Bess
To the playhouse of fortune
to take the bright silver
An gold you have taken from somebody elseAnd as we go riding in the damp foggy midnight
You snort, my good pony, and you give me your best
For you know, and I know, good horse
'mongst the rich ones
How oftimes we go there an unwelcome guestI've never took food from the widows and orphans
And never a hard working man I oppressed
So take your pace easy,
for home soon like lightening
We soon will be riding, my shiny Black BessNo fat rich man's pony can ever overtake you
And there's not a rider from the east to the west
Could hold you a light
in this dark mist and midnight
When the potbellied thieves
chase their unwelcome guestI don't know good horse,
As we trot in this dark here
That robbing the rich is for worse or for best
They take it by stealing and lying and gambling
And I take it my way, my shiny Black BessI treat horses good and I'm friendly to strangers
I ride and your running makes my guns talk the best
And the rangers and deputies
are hired by the rich man
To catch me and hang me, my shining Black BessYes, they'll catch me napping one day
and they'll kill me
And then I'll be gone but that won´t be my end
For my guns and my saddle will always be filled
By unwelcome travellers and other brave menAnd they'll take the money and spread it out equal
Just like the Bible and the prophets suggest
But the man that go riding to help these poor workers
The rich will cut down like an unwelcome guest 

There's A Feeling In Music
There's a feeling in music and it carries you back down the road you have traveled and makes you travel it again. Or it takes you back down the road somebody else has come and you can look out across the world from the hill they are standing on.Sometimes when I hear music I think back over my days - and a feeling that is fifty-fifty joy and pain swells like clouds taking all kinds of shape in my mind - If it is joy it is of such a treasured sort and such a fine make that the thought of its passing is near to pain - and you can see how pain has paid you a profit in its own strange way - and the joy of the sadness is like a raindrop falling in the sunMusic is on the radio - I notice that as I listen, I think of my mistakes, ill words, wasted time, and the next note I think of who I love and who I hate and the success I've had at both and of my tomorrow's chances. And I feel like a singing god riding on a cloud snapping my fingers and ruling a universeMusic is a tone of voice, the sound life uses to keep the living alive. They call us back many times a day from the brinks of torture - the holes of superstition. There never was a sound that was not music - there's no real trick of creating words to set to music - once you realize that the word is the music and the people are the song. 

There's More True Lovers Than One
Look out acrost that sea and see those breakers swell
How many a love it's washed away no human tongue can tell
Nobody can ever solve that dark sea's mysteries
How many a love has bloomed and blown the same as you and me

There's more true lovers than one
There's more true lovers than one
Cast out aside by every tide
There's more true lovers than one

I looked acrost that sea to see them whitecap breakers rise
True love comes in like an ocean tide and like the wind it flies
Upon these moonlit sands how many a vow was sworn
How many a heart has tossed and broke while love went rolling on

There's more true lovers than one
There's more true lovers than one
Cast out aside by every tide
There's more true lovers than one

The moon so high above sees many a kiss exchanged
Sees many a heart that has to part to never return again
We carv'd our names in the sand where love's great waters roll
But names untold have washed away while love goes rolling on

There's more true lovers than one
There's more true lovers than one
Cast out aside by every tide
There's more true lovers than one 

This Land Is Your Land
This land is your land This land is my land
From California to the New York island;
From the red wood forest to the Gulf Stream waters
This land was made for you and Me.As I was walking that ribbon of highway,
I saw above me that endless skyway:
I saw below me that golden valley:
This land was made for you and me.I've roamed and rambled and I followed my footsteps
To the sparkling sands of her diamond deserts;
And all around me a voice was sounding:
This land was made for you and me.When the sun came shining, and I was strolling,
And the wheat fields waving and the dust clouds rolling,
As the fog was lifting a voice was chanting:
This land was made for you and me.As I went walking I saw a sign there
And on the sign it said "No Trespassing."
But on the other side it didn't say nothing,
That side was made for you and me.In the shadow of the steeple I saw my people,
By the relief office I seen my people;
As they stood there hungry, I stood there asking
Is this land made for you and me?Nobody living can ever stop me,
As I go walking that freedom highway;
Nobody living can ever make me turn back
This land was made for you and me. Available on:

This Morning I Am Born Again
This morning I was born again and a light shines on my land
I no longer look for heaven in your deathly distant land
I do not want your pearly gates don’t want your streets of gold
This morning I was born again and a light shines on my soulThis morning I was born again, I was born again complete
I stood up above my troubles and I stand on my two feet
My hand it feels unlimited, my body feels like the sky
I feel at home in the universe where yonder planets flyThis morning I was born again, my past is dead and gone
This great eternal moment is my great eternal dawn
Each drop of blood within me, each breath of life I breathe
Is united with these mountains and the mountains with the seasI feel the sun upon me, it’s rays crawl through my skin
I breathe the life of Jesus and old John Henry in
I give myself, my heart, my soul to give some friend a hand
This morning I was born again, I am in the promised landThis morning I was born again and a light shines on my land
I no longer look for heaven in your deathly distant land
I do not want your pearly gates don’t want your streets of gold
And I do not want your mansion for my heart is never cold. 

This Train Is Bound For Glory
This train is bound for glory, this train.
This train is bound for glory, this train.
This train is bound for glory,
Don't carry nothing but the righteous and the holy.
This train is bound for glory, this train.This train don't carry no gamblers, this train;
This train don't carry no gamblers, this train;
This train don't carry no gamblers,
Liars, thieves, nor big shot ramblers,
This train is bound for glory, this train.This train don't carry no liars, this train;
This train don't carry no liars, this train;
This train don't carry no liars,
She's streamlined and a midnight flyer,
This train don't carry no liars, this train.This train don't carry no smokers, this train;
This train don't carry no smokers, this train
This train don't carry no smokers,
Two bit liars, small time jokers,
This train don't carry no smokers, this train.This train don't carry no con men, this train;
This train don't carry no con men, this train;
This train don't carry no con men,
No wheeler dealers, here and gone men,
This train don't carry no con men, this train.This train don't carry no rustlers, this train;
This train don't carry no rustlers, this train;
This train don't carry no rustlers,
Sidestreet walkers, two bit hustlers,
This train is bound for glory, this train. 

Ticky Tock
Little hand, big hand
Long hand, short hand
Rich man, poor man,
Ticky ticky tock
Hour hand, minute hand
Fast hand, slow hand
Worker man, gambler man
Ticky ticky tock.:
Ticky ticky tick tock
Ticky ticky tick tock
Time a gonna git you
Ticky ticky tock.Rough hand, fine hand
Sick hand, well hand
Angel hand and devil hand
Ticky ticky tock
Smooth hand, blister'd hand
Robber hand, honest hand
Living hand and dead hand
Ticky ticky tock.Your hand, my hand
Big hand, little hand
Lady hand and man hand
Ticky ticky tock
His hand, her hand
Liar's tongue and coward hand
Lyncher hand, slave hand
Ticky ticky tock.Iron hand, marble hand
Farm hand, mill hand
Mine hand, factory hand
Ticky ticky tock
Eating hand, drinking hand
Saw hand and hammer hand
Honey hand and money hand
Ticky ticky tock.My hand, your hand
Warm hand, cold hand
Old hand and new hand
What hand, which hand?
Come hand, gone hand,
Good hand and bad hand
Ticky ticky tock. 

Tippy Tap Toe
Tippy tap toe, my little sugar plum,
'Round you go, my little sugar plum,
Tippy tap toe, my little angel,
And around and around you go.Runny run run, my little sugar plum,
'Round you come, my little sugar plum,
Runny, run run, my little sweety pie,
And around and around you go.On your toes, my little sugar plum,
Toesy toes, my little sugar plum,
'Round you go, my little sugar bun,
And around and around you go.Clap your hands, my little sugar plum,
Clap, clap hands, my little sugar loaf,
Clap, clap hands, my little tickletoe,
And around and around you go.Now fly like a bird, my little sugar plum,
Fly like a bird, my little sweety pie,
Flap your wings, my little angel,
And around and around you go.Now hop like a rabbit, my little sugar plum,
Hop like a rabbit, my little honeycomb,
Zippety hop, my little sweet thing,
And around and around you go.'Round you go, my little sweet thing,
'Round you go, my little honey bun,
'Round you go, my little sunnyshine,
And around and around you go. 

Tom Joad
Tom Joad got out of the old McAlester Pen;
There he got his parole.
After four long years on a man killing charge,
Tom Joad come a-walkin' down the road, poor boy,
Tom Joad come a-walkin' down the road.Tom Joad, he met a truck driving man;
There he caught him a ride.
He said, "I just got loose from McAlester Pen
On a charge called homicide,
A charge called homicide."That truck rolled away in a cloud of dust;
Tommy turned his face toward home.
He met Preacher Casey, and they had a little drink,
But they found that his family they was gone,
He found that his family they was gone.He found his mother's old-fashion shoe,
Found his daddy's hat.
And he found little Muley and Muley said,
"They've been tractored out by the cats,
They've been tractored out by the cats."Tom Joad walked down to the neighbor's farm,
Found his family.
They took Preacher Casey and loaded in a car,
And his mother said, "We've got to get away."
His mother said, "We've got to get away."Now, the twelve of the Joads made a mighty heavy load;
But Grandpa Joad did cry.
He picked up a handful of land in his hand,
Said: "I'm stayin' with the farm till I die.
Yes, I'm stayin' with the farm till I die."They fed him short ribs and coffee and soothing syrup;
And Grandpa Joad did die.
They buried Grandpa Joad by the side of the road,
Grandma on the California side,
They buried Grandma on the California side.They stood on a mountain and they looked to the west,
And it looked like the promised land.
That bright green valley with a river running through,
There was work for every single hand, they thought,
There was work for every single hand.The Joads rolled away to the jungle camp,
There they cooked a stew.
And the hungry little kids of the jungle camp
Said: "We'd like to have some, too."
Said: "We'd like to have some, too."Now a deputy sheriff fired loose at a man,
Shot a woman in the back.
Before he could take his aim again,
Preacher Casey dropped him in his track, poor boy,
Preacher Casey dropped him in his track.They handcuffed Casey and they took him in jail;
And then he got away.
And he met Tom Joad on the old river bridge,
And these few words he did say, poor boy,
These few words he did say."I preached for the Lord a mighty long time,
Preached about the rich and the poor.
Us workin' folkses, all get together,
'Cause we ain't got a chance anymore.
We ain't got a chance anymore."Now, the deputies come, and Tom and Casey run
To the bridge where the water run down.
But the vigilante thugs hit Casey with a club,
They laid Preacher Casey on the ground, poor Casey,
They laid Preacher Casey on the ground.Tom Joad, he grabbed that deputy's club,
Hit him over the head.
Tom Joad took flight in the dark rainy night,
And a deputy and a preacher lying dead, two men,
A deputy and a preacher lying dead.Tom run back where his mother was asleep;
He woke her up out of bed.
An' he kissed goodbye to the mother that he loved,
Said what Preacher Casey said, Tom Joad,
He said what Preacher Casey said."Ever'body might be just one big soul,
Well it looks that a-way to me.
Everywhere that you look, in the day or night,
That's where I'm a-gonna be, Ma,
That's where I'm a-gonna be.Wherever little children are hungry and cry,
Wherever people ain't free.
Wherever men are fightin' for their rights,
That's where I'm a-gonna be, Ma.
That's where I'm a-gonna be." 

Tom Mooney Is Free
Mister Tom Mooney is free!
Mister Tom Mooney is free!
Done got a pardon from that old jailhouse,
Mister Culbert L. Olsen's decree.How does it feel to be free?
How does it feel to be free?
How does it feel just to be out of jail,
Since the gov'ner has got your liberty?It was way up in old Frisco town,
It was way up in old Frisco town,
Mr. Mooney and Billings was accused of a killing
And railroaded jail house bound.Twenty two years have gone by,
Twenty two years have gone by,
And he spent the twenty two fer a crime he didn't do,
My! My! My! My!Well the Truth caint be tied with a chain.
Well the Truth caint be tied with a chain.
From the cold clammy halls of the San Quentin walls,
Mister Tom Mooney is Free.It was Culbert L. Olsen's decree!
It was Culbert L. Olsen's decree!
When he took that gov'nors chair, he said, I declare,
I got to set this state of California free. 

Two Good Men
Two good men a long time gone,
Two good men a long time gone
(Two good men a long time gone, oh, gone),
Sacco, Vanzetti a long time gone,
Left me here to sing this song.Say, there, did you hear the news?
Sacco worked at trimming shoes;
Vanzetti was a peddling man,
Pushed his fish cart with his hands.Sacco was born across the sea
Somewhere over in Italy;
Vanzetti was born of parents fine,
Drank the best Italian wine.Sacco sailed the sea one day,
Landed up in Boston Bay;
Vanzetti sailed the ocean blue,
Landed up in Boston, too.Sacco's wife three children had,
Sacco was a family man;
Vanzetti was a dreaming man,
His book was always in his hand.Sacco earned his bread and butter
Being the factory's best shoe cutter;
Vanzetti spoke both day and night,
Told the workers how to fight.I'll tell you if you ask me
'Bout this payroll robbery;
Two clerks was killed by the shoe factory
On the street in South Braintree.Judge Thayer told his friends around
He would cut the radicals down;
Anarchist bastards was the name
Judge Thayer called these two good men.I'll tell you the prosecutors' names,
Katsman, Adams, Williams, Kane;
The judge and lawyers strutted down,
They done more tricks than circus clowns.Vanzetti docked here in 1908;
He slept along the dirty streets,
He told the workers “Organize”
And on the electric chair he dies.All you people ought to be like me,
And work like Sacco and Vanzetti;
And every day find some ways to fight
On the union side for workers' rights.I've got no time to tell this tale,
The dicks and bulls are on my trail;
But I'll remember these two good men
That died to show me how to live.All you people in Suassos Lane
Sing this song and sing it plain.
All you folks that's coming along,
Jump in with me, and sing this song. 

Union Air In Union Square
I walked out in New York town
To the place called Union Square
Where trees are thick and people bark
And the pigeons fill the air.
Where pure manure and bird drops
Are flying from the sky
You’ll get it in your ears and brain
As well as in your eye.Old Paunchy shoots the Trotsky line
And waves his hands and struts
Reef Wilson sweats for the socialists
And the pigeons think he’s nuts.
Herb Solomon howls to get the dough
To rebuild Jerusalem
And above it all there waves the flag
Of your good old Uncle Sam.I walked around and I heard the sound
Of voices of all sorts
The Slav, the Dutch, the heavy Swede,
The Negro, longs and shorts,
The broad flat As from the western plains
The thick ones and the thin,
The same old flag flew over them all—
All free, but different men.Three Negro girls walked through and read the words carved here in stone
Words that told of the rocky road
That our forefathers come—
The sparrow chirped and the jaybird squawked
And the sweat-gnat plied his trade
I guess the sweat in Union Square
Is surely Union made.A bigger fly just now buzzed by
And he flew to earth to land
And he sat there and laughed at me
As he licked and washed his hand
He knows damn well this country’s free
For him to bite my skin
(and I know, too, its free for me
To take a crack at ‘him).One guy says “Why, I’m free to sleep
Where it says Keep Off The Grass!”
And a cop says, “Sure! An’ me, I’m free
To kick your lousy ass!”
The sun shoots down on many a head,
Some bushy and some bald
But away up high the stars and stripes
Waves on above us allI put my feet upon the seat
Of the bench and the cop came ’round
And he swung his club and says “Hey, spud!
Ya better take ‘em down!”
So you see you’re free in our country
To do as you damn please
And other folks are just as free
To put you in your place.A bald headed man with glasses on
Is humped up over a book
He feels like he has got the right
To look where he wants to look
The book he reads is filled with mystic
Symbols of masonry.
The fellow next to him reads
“How To Plant and Grow a Tree.”The copper badge of the N.M.U.
On a fellow’s coat lapel
Tells me that he is from the sea
Where the fascists raise their hell—
Oh yes—you’re free in the U.S.A.
To be a fascist, too—
And of course the rest of us are free
To dig your grave for youThis union air in Union Square
Is breathed by many a lung
Some good, some bad, some sick,
some well,
Some right ones and some wrong
We haven’t got a Super Race
Nor a Godsent maniac
To make super dupers out of us
Nor chain nor hold us back.What have we got? There’s two little girls
That climb a statue ’round
And they laugh and pat the marble breast
And jump down to the ground
And one says, “Hey! I’ll be a statue!
Looky! Hey! Watch me!”
And the second girl pooched her lips
And said, “I’d rather be a tree!”“I’ll stand here with my clothes off
And be a statue real!”
And she scampered through the park
With the other one barking at her heel:
“You ain’t s’pose ta take yer dress off
Jest ’cause that statue did!”
“Girls don’t have much fun as statues!”
Was the only thing heard said. 

Union Burying Ground
I see they're low'ring a right new coffin,
I see they're letting down a right new coffin,
Way over in that union burying ground.And the new dirt's a falling on a right new coffin,
The new dirt's a falling on a right new coffin,
Way over in that union burying ground.Oh, tell me, who's that they're letting down, down?
Tell me, who's that they're letting down, down?
Way over in that union burying ground.Another union organizer,
Another union organizer,
Way over in that union burying ground.A union brother and a union sister,
A union brother and a union sister,
Way over in that union burying ground.A union father and a union mother,
A union father and a union mother,
Way over in that union burying ground.Well, I'm a gonna sleep in a union coffin,
I'm a gonna sleep in a union coffin,
Way over in that union burying ground.Every new grave brings a thousand new ones,
Every new grave brings a thousand members,
Way over in that union burying ground.Every new grave brings a thousand brothers,
And every new grave brings a thousand sisters
To the union in that union burying ground. 

Union Love Juice
I am the meat and the flower of sex. I am the meat and the flower of sex.I am the meat and the flower of sex and if you find a way to hurt me I'll find a way to hurt you too. I am the meat and the flower of sex.I am the lap and warm bosom of sex. I am the lap and warm bosom of sex. I am the lap and warm bosom of sex. If you hurry on past me I'll hurry past you.I am the back thigh and rump skin of sex. I am the back thigh and rump skin of sex. If you try to whang into me I'll try to crang into you because I am the back thigh and rump skin of sex.I am that talk straight milky white stuff in this back rib bone of this tall and keen Egyptian negro.I am the hard solid spot on the ring mat where Joe Louis let his toe dance when his fist whipped out to fight and to kill out the racey hates of my sick ones to your south, to your north, to you east and back down west.I am the meat and the flower of sex.Most buildings you see pull their blinds down to try to keep me from coming in. I rip down ignorant bricks stacks as fast as shaky fear can line them up and square them raise them and build them. Your design and your pattern is my private property. Your grass and garden is where I toss my hat.I lick ice cream off of my fingers and I suck on my own tongue for my freest pleasures and I hold up every comic funny paper book on earth and I suck while my eye reads the funny on every tongue to the southland, to my drouthland, to my dance land, to my heavy and my hurt hand and my hurt land.I am the meat and the flower of sex.I am the lap and warm bosom of sex. I am the breast and the swung leaf of sex. I am the back thigh and rump skin of sex. This is my union love juice. 

Union Maid
There once was a union maid, she never was afraid
Of goons and ginks and company finks and the deputy sheriffs who made the raid.
She went to the union hall when a meeting it was called,
And when the Legion boys come 'round
She always stood her ground.Oh, you can't scare me, I'm sticking to the union,
I'm sticking to the union, I'm sticking to the union.
Oh, you can't scare me, I'm sticking to the union,
I'm sticking to the union 'til the day I die.This union maid was wise to the tricks of company spies,
She couldn't be fooled by a company stool, she'd always organize the guys.
She always got her way when she struck for better pay.
She'd show her card to the National Guard
And this is what she'd sayYou gals who want to be free, just take a tip from me;
Get you a man who's a union man and join the ladies' auxiliary.
Married life ain't hard when you got a union card,
A union man has a happy life when he's got a union wife. 

Union Prayer
I hear that prayer and praying
Will change this world around
I fold my hands I bow my head
I kneel down on the groundI prayed and prayed by nite & day
And then I prayed some more
I prayed till my tongue was dry as dust
I prayed till my knees had sores.Will prayer change shacks to decent homes?
Will prayer change sickness into health?
Will prayer change hate to works of love?
Will prayer get me my right to vote?Will prayer give jobs at honest pay?
Will prayer bring stomach full of food?
Will prayer make rich treat poor folks right?
Will prayer take out the Ku Klux Klan?Will prayer cut down the hoodlum bands?
Will prayer stop the lynchbug hands?
If all of these things my prayers can do,
I’ll pray till I am black and blue.If prayer will bring us union love,
I’ll pray and pray and pray some more.
I’ll pray all day from door to door
And fall at nite to pray some more
My prayer with a union label. 

Unwelcome Guest, The
To the rich man's bright lodges I ride in this wind
On my good horse I call you my shiny Black Bess
To the playhouse of fortune
to take the bright silver
An gold you have taken from somebody elseAnd as we go riding in the damp foggy midnight
You snort, my good pony, and you give me your best
For you know, and I know, good horse
'mongst the rich ones
How oftimes we go there an unwelcome guestI've never took food from the widows and orphans
And never a hard working man I oppressed
So take your pace easy,
for home soon like lightening
We soon will be riding, my shiny Black BessNo fat rich man's pony can ever overtake you
And there's not a rider from the east to the west
Could hold you a light
in this dark mist and midnight
When the potbellied thieves
chase their unwelcome guestI don't know good horse,
As we trot in this dark here
That robbing the rich is for worse or for best
They take it by stealing and lying and gambling
And I take it my way, my shiny Black BessI treat horses good and I'm friendly to strangers
I ride and your running makes my guns talk the best
And the rangers and deputies
are hired by the rich man
To catch me and hang me, my shining Black BessYes, they'll catch me napping one day
and they'll kill me
And then I'll be gone but that won´t be my end
For my guns and my saddle will always be filled
By unwelcome travellers and other brave menAnd they'll take the money and spread it out equal
Just like the Bible and the prophets suggest
But the man that go riding to help these poor workers
The rich will cut down like an unwelcome guest 

Vanzetti's Letter
The year is nineteen twenty-seven, the day is the third day of May;
The town is the city called Boston, our address this dark Dedham jail;
To your Honor, the Governor Fuller, to the Council of Massachusetts State,
We, Bartolomeo Vanzetti and Nicola Sacco, do say:Confined in your jail here at Dedham and under the sentence of death,
We pray you exercise your powers to look at the facts of our case;
We do not ask you for a pardon, for a pardon would admit of our guilt;
Since we are both innocent workers, we have no guilt to admit.We are both born by parents in Italy, we cannot speak English too well;
Our friends of labor are writing these words here back of the bars of our cell;
Our friends say if we speak too plain, sir, we may turn your feelings away,
And widen these canyons between us, but we risk our life to talk plain.We think, sir, that each human being is in close touch with all of man's kind;
We think, sir, that each human being knows right from the wrong in his mind.
We talk to you here as a man, sir, even knowing our opinions divide;
We did not kill the guards at South Braintree, nor dream of such a terrible crime.We call you eye to this fact, sir, we work with our hand and our brain;
These robberies, killings, were done, sir, by professional bandit men.
Sacco has been a good cutter, Mrs. Sacco their money has saved;
And I, Vanzetti, I could have saved money, but I gave it as fast as received.I'm a dreamer, a speaker, and a writer, I fight on the working folks' side;
Sacco is Boston's fastest shoe trimmer, and he talks to the husbands and wives.
We hunted your land, and we found it, hoped we'd find freedom of mind,
Build up your land, this Land of the Free, this is what we came to find.If we were those killers, Good Governor, we'd not be so dumb and so blind
To pass out our handbills and make workers' speeches here by the scene of the crime.
Those fifteen thousands of dollars the lawyers and judge say we took,
Do we, sir, dress up like two gentlemen with that much in our pocketbook?Our names are on that long list of radicals of the Federal Government, sir,
They say that we needed watching as we peddled our literature;
Judge Thayer's mind was made this corridor to death, sir, like workers have walked before,
But we'll work in our working class struggle if we live a thousand lives more. 

Vanzetti's Rock
I see the tourists, Vanzetti,
Around your Plymouth's Rock;
Black glasses, sun goggles, stain'd glasses,
Smoked glasses to block out the light.
O see them come here as you seen them,
But I see lots more than you saw;
I see them in fast running-cars,
You seen them in wagons and carts.These tourists don't see you, Vanzetti,
These salesmen and gamblers on tour.
Your footprints are dim and your trail is sprung weeds.
Their tourist map don't show you there.
The trade union workers, Vanzetti,
Will vacation here, and we'll tour
This Rock and this town and Plymouth around
When their statues have souls like yours.Your picture is painted, Vanzetti,
Your words are carved 'round the frames;
Your songs and your poems,
your working folks' dreams,
Will flame with our greatest of names.
Your name I will paint on my pointers,
My streets, my mountains, my shops;
Your hopes that you hoped, dreams that you dreamed
I'll see that your works never stop.Those talks for the workers, Vanzetti,
I'll chisel them down on the rocks;
I'll tell every worker to fight you fought,
Like the Pilgrims that docked on this rock.
I'll scatter your words on my waters
To the ships, to the fishes, the gulls;
I'll cast your fish cart in metals so fine,
And I'll push around this world. 

V.D. City
You’ve seen your brite visions of glory
Where love built your city on high;
I have just seen the cold lower dungeons
Where the victims of syph roll and cry;
They are called to this city of sorrow
To confess all the wrong things they’ve done;
Their teardrops and weeping runs louder
Than my city blown down by the bombs.There’s a street named for every disease here;
Syph alley, and clap avenue
The whores and their pimps and their victims
Crawl past on the curb to my view;
Once young and once healthy and happy;
Now a whirlpool of raving insane;
Lost here in this wild V.D. city
Where nobody knows you by name.Your eye is too testered to see here;
Worse than lepers your skin runs with sores;
Every window stands full of lost faces;
Human wrecks pile the steps and the doors;
Must you pay your way to this city
With an hour of passions desire?
I pray that I’ll not see your face here
Where the millions now burn in the fires. 

Vigilante Man
Have you seen that vigilante man?
Have you seen that vigilante man?
Have you seen that vigilante man?
I been hearin' his name all over the land.Well, what is a vigilante man?
Tell me, what is a vigilante man?
Has he got a gun and a club in his hand?
Is that is a vigilante man?Rainy night down in the engine house,
Sleepin' just as still as a mouse,
Man come along an' he chased us out in the rain.
Was that a vigilante man?Stormy days we passed the time away,
Sleepin' in some good warm place.
Man come along an' we give him a little race.
Was that a vigilante man?Preacher Casey was just a workin' man,
And he said, "Unite all you working men."
Killed him in the river some strange man.
Was that a vigilante man?Oh, why does a vigilante man,
Why does a vigilante man
Carry that sawed-off shot-gun in his hand?
Would he shoot his brother and sister down?I rambled 'round from town to town,
I rambled 'round from town to town,
And they herded us around like a wild herd of cattle.
Was that the vigilante men?Have you seen that vigilante man?
Have you seen that vigilante man?
I've heard his name all over this land. 

Voice
I don't know how far I'm going to have to go
To see my own self or to hear my own voice
I tuned in on the radio and for hours never heard it
And then I went to the moving picture shown
And never heard it there
I put handful of coins into machines and watched records turn
But voice there was no voice of mine
I mean it was not my voice
The words not words that I hear in my own ears
When I walk along and look at faces
I set here in a Jewish delicatessen, and I order a hot pastrami
Sandwich on rye bread and I hear the lady ask me
Would you like to have a portion of cole slaw on the side
And I know when I heard her speak that
She spoke my voice
And I told her I would take my slaw on a side dish please
And I would like to have a glass of tea with lemon please
And she knew that I was speaking her words
And a fellow sat across at a table near my wall
And spoke as he ate his salami and drank his beer
And somehow I had the feeling
As I heard him speak, and he spoke a long time,
And not one word was in my personal language,
But I could tell by the deep sound, by the full tone
Of his voice that he spoke my language
And I suppose you may wonder just how he could speak
In a dialect that I could not savvy nor understand
And yet understand every sound that he made
I learned to do this a long time ago
Walking up and down the sideroads and the main stems
Of this land here
I learned to listen this way when I washed dishes on the ships
I had to learn how to do it when I walked ashore in Africa
And in Scotland and in Ireland and in Britain,
London, Liverpool, Glasgow, Scots towns and Anglo's farms,
Irish canals and railroads bridges, Highlander's cows and horses
And here I knew the speech was the same as mine but
It was the dialect again, nasal, throatsy, deep chesty,
From the stomach, from the lungs, high in the head, pitched up and down,
And here I had to learn again
To say this is my language this is part of my voice
Oh but I have not even heard this voice, these voices,
On the stages, screens, radios, records, juke boxes,
In magazines nor not in newspapers, seldom in courtrooms,
And more seldom when students and policemen are studying the faces
Behind the voices
And I thought as I saw a drunken streetwalking man mutter
And spit and curse into the wind out the café's plate glass,
That maybe, if I looked close enough, I might hear
Some more of my voice
And I ate as quiet as I could, so as keep my eyes
And my ears and my feelings wide open
And did hear
Heard all that I came to hear here in Coney Island 's Jewish air
Heard reflections, recollections, seen faces in memory,
Heard voices untangle their words before me
And I knew by the feeling I felt that here was my voice. 

Waiting At The Gate


Wake Up
Wake up, wake up, wake up, wake up
Wake up, wake up, wake up, wake up
Wake up, wake up, wake up, wake up
Wake up, wake up, wake up, wake up.

Open eyes, open eyes, open eyes, open eyes
Open eyes, open eyes, open eyes, open eyes
Wake up, wake up, wake up, wake up
Open eyes, open eyes, open eyes, open eyes.

Stretch arms, stretch arms, stretch arms, stretch arms
Stretch arms, stretch arms, stretch arms, stretch arms
Wake up, wake up, wake up, wake up, wake up
Stretch arms, stretch arms, stretch arms, stretch arms.Stretch feet, stretch feet, stretch feet, stretch feet
Stretch feet, stretch feet, stretch feet, stretch feet
Wake up, open eyes, and stretch your arms
Stretch feet, stretch feet, stretch feet, stretch feet.Stretch hands and toes and hands and toes
And hands and toes and hands and toes
Wake up and stretch your arms and feet
Stretch hands and toes and hands and toes.Wake up and play with all your toys
Wake up, wake up, wake up, wake up
And play with all the girls and boys
Wake up, wake up, wake up, wake up.Wake up, wake up, wake up, wake up
Wake up and see the sun shine in
And listen to all the things outside
Wake up, wake up, wake up, wake up. 

Walt Whitman's Neice
Last night or the night before that,
I won´t say which night
A seaman friend of mine,
I´ll not say which seaman,
Walked up to a big old building,
I won´t say which building,
And would not have walked up the stairs,
not to say which stairs,
If there had not been two girls,
leaving out the names of those two girls.I recall a door, a big long room,
I´ll not tell which room,
I remember a big blue rug,
but I can´t say which rug,
A girl took down a book of poems,
not to say which book of poems
And as she read I laid my head,
and I can´t tell which head,
Down in her lap, and I can mention which lapMy seaman buddy and girl moved off
after a couple of pages and there I was,
All night long, laying and listening
and forgetting the poems.
And as well as I could recall,
or my seaman could recollect,
My girl had told us that she was a niece
of Walt Whitman, but not which niece,
And it takes a night and a girl
and a book of this kind
A long long time to find its way back 

Want To See Me Grow


Warden In The Sky
I stand with prison bars around me
And we have kissed our last goodbye
I walk my last long mile at midnight
To meet my warden in the skiesI see the stars in all their glory
Out my window as they shine
They ask me is my spirit ready
To meet my warden in the skiesWithout your love I would feel guilty
Your kisses, dear, my feet will guide
Your hopes and dreams will light my path, dear
To meet my warden in the skiesYour love I'll tell to all my buddies
When I cross to life's other side
I'll answer work-call in the morning
With my warden in the skiesThese walls of rocks and stone around me
These bars of iron I leave behind
I'll write your letters on the moonbeams
From my warden in the skiesWithout your love I would feel guilty
Your kisses, dear, my feet will guide
Your hopes and dreams will light my path, dear
To meet my warden in the skies 

Washington Talkin' Blues
Long about nineteen twentynine.
I owned a little farm, was a doin' just fine.
Raised a little row crop raised some wheat
Sold it over at the county seat,
Drawed the money. Raised a family.But the dust came along, and the price went down,
Didn't have the money when the bank come around;
Tumble weeds and the black dust blowed,
So we hit the trail to the land where the waters floed,
Way out across yonder somewhere.Well, the hot old rocks and the desert sand
Made my mind run back to the dust bowl land,
But my hopes was high and we rolled along
To the Columbia River up in Washington.
Lots of good rain, Little piece of land. Feller might grow something.We settled down on some cut over land
Pulled up brush and the stumps by hand.
Hot sun burnt up my first crop of wheat
And the river down the canyon just 500 feet.
Might as we of been 50 miles. Couldn't get no water.We loaded our belongings and we lit out for town
Seen the old vacant houses and farms all around,
And folks a leaving out, if you're asking me
That's as lonesome as sight as a feller can see.
Good land. Grow anything you plant, long as you can get the moisture.I struck a lumber town and heard the big saw sing,
And when business is good, why lumber's king;
I went to lookin' for a job but the man said no,
So we hit the skids on the old skid row.
Traipsing up and down. Chasing a bite to eat. Kids hungryHeard about a job, so we hit the wheat
Made about enough for the kids to eat,
Picked in the berries, gathered in the fruit,
Hops, peaches, and the apples, too.
Slept in just about everything except a good warm bed.Been to Arizona, been to California, too,
Found the people was plenty but the jobs was few;
Well maybe it's like the feller said,
When they ain't enough arok, well, business is dead,
Sorta ailin'. Ain't no money a changin' hands, just people changing places. Folks wastin gasoline a'chasin' around.Now what we need is a great big dam
To throw a lot of water out acrost that land,
People could work and the stuff would grow
And you could wave goodbye to the old Skid Row
Work hard, raise all kinds of stuff, kids, too. Take it easy. 

Wash-y Wash Wash
Washy washy washy,
Washy washy washy,
Jingle jangle ding-a-ling,
Pinky panky ponk.Warshy little tootsy,
Warshy little baby toe,
Warshy little chin chin,
Pinky panky ponk.Warshy little leg leg,
Warshy little cheek cheek,
Warshy little eyes-y,
Pinky panky ponk.Splish splash toes-y,
Splashy little piggy pig,
Splash splash handsy,
Pinky panky ponk.Washy washy washy,
Washy washy washy,
Jingle jangle ding-a-ling,
Pinky panky ponk.Splish splash big toe,
Splish splash little toe,
Splish splash finger,
Pinky panky ponk.Wipe wipe this knee,
Rub rub that knee,
Dry dry tum tum,
Pinky panky ponk.Brush brush pretty hair,
Brush brush pretty hair,
Wrapped in a warm towel,
Pinky panky ponk.Washy washy washy,
Washy washy washy,
Jingle jangle ding-a-ling,
Pinky panky ponk. 

Way Over Yonder in the Minor Key
I lived in a place called Okfuskee
And I had a little girl in a holler tree
I said, little girl, it's plain to see,
There ain't nobody that can sing like meShe said it's hard for me to see
How one little boy got so ugly
Yes, my luttle girly, that might be
But there ain't nobody that can sing like meAin't nobody that can sing like me
Way over yonder in the minor key
Way over yonder in the minor key
There ain't nobody that can sing like meWe walked down by the Buckeye Creek
To see the frog eat the goggle eye bee
To hear that west wind whistle to the east
There ain't nobody that can sing like meOh my little girly will you let me see
Way over yonder where the wind blows free
Nobody can see in our holler tree
And there ain't nobody that can sing like meHer mama cut a switch from a cherry tree
And laid it on the she and me
It stung lots worse than a hive of bees
But there ain't nobody that can sing like meNow I have walked a long long ways
And I still look back to my tanglewood days
I've led lots of girls since then to stray
Saying, ain't nobody that can sing like me. 

We Welcome To Heaven
We welcome to heaven Sacco and Vanzetti,
Two men that have won the highest of seats,
Come, let me show you the world that you come through.
It's a funny old world, as I'm sure you'll admit.If you wear rags on earth, your're a hobo,
If you wear satin, they call you a thief,
If you save money, they call you a miser,
If you spend money, you are on relief.If you work hard, they say you are lowly,
If you're a loafer, of course, you're no good;
If you stay sober, you're known as a sissy,
And if you drink liquor, it goes to your head.If you are fat, they will call you a glutton,
If you stay skinny, they call you a runt;
If you laugh, they'll call you an idiot,
And if you cry, they will ask you to stop.If you chase women, they call you a wolfer,
If you don't chase them, they call you afraid;
If you chase men, they'll call you downtrodden,
If you don't chase them, they'll call you old maid.If you eat your meat fried, they'll tell you to boil it,
Then if you boil it, they'll say it should broil;
If you don't eat meat, and eat only green things,
They'll ask you what's wrong with the brain in your skull.If you work for wages, you support the rich capitalist,
If you don't work, you're a lumpen to them;
If you play the gamble, of course, you're a gambler,
And if you don't gamble, you never do win.If you stay poor, nobody comes courting,
And if you get rich, you can't find a mate;
If you get married, you're wrecking your happiness,
If you stay single, you walk to your grave.If you die in your cradle, it's a sad misfortune,
If you live to old age, it's harder and worse;
If you've read the papers, you know it is many
Who take their lives daily when they empty their purse.There's traders, and trappers, and shippers, and hopers,
Sacco and Vanzetti, in America's fair lands,
There's hoppers and croppers and robbers and dopers,
And millions of folks with just two empty hands.You come the straight road, Sacco and Vanzetti,
You fought with the lord on his most private ground;
He hired his courts and his babblers against you,
But, I'm here to say you went up and not down. 

What Are We Waiting On?


What Did The Deep Sea Say
Oh captain tell me true,
does my sailor sail with you?
No, he does not sail with me,
He sleeps on the bottom of the sea.

:
What did the deep sea say?
Tell me, what did the deep sea say?
It moaned and groaned
And it splashed and it foamed
And it rolled on its weary way.

Well, he promised he'd write to me,
but his promise he never kept true.
Never a word from my sailor have I heard
Since he sailed on that ocean blue.

A beautiful rose every day
I placed on the crest of the waves.
Said "Take it please,
And let the petals fall
Above his watery grave."

 

What Is This World Gonna Do


Wheel Of Life
The Wheel of Life will Turn and Turn
And roll on -The Wheel of Life will Turn and Turn and Roll on!
The Wheel of Life will Turn and Turn and Roll on!
Great big wheel will turn again;
Better get rid of all your sin!
Wheel of Life will turn again and roll on.If you wanta ride this Wheel of Life, it's roll on;
If you wanta ride this Wheel of Life, it's roll on;
Better let all your business drop.
Nobody knows where it will stop;
Wheel of Life will spin again and roll on!Wheel of Life goes round and round, it's roll on;
Wheel of Life goes round and round, it's roll on;
Great big wheel is away up High
Carry you way up in the Sky;
Wheel of Life will spin again and roll on.Life is a great big Gamblin' Wheel; it's roll on;
Life is a Great Big Gamblin' Wheel; it's roll on;
Life is a great big Gamblin' Wheel; it's roll on;
If you hope to beat the Game.
Better see you praisin’ in God’s name;
Wheel of Life will spin and spin and spin again and roll on. 

When I Get Home
Well, I been around this world a million times
And I fought in all the fox holes and the lines
I have rode every ship that rides the foam
And I know just what I’ll do when I get home.:
Yes, I know just what I’ll do when I get home.
And I know just what I’ll do when I get home.I lifted and I carried and I hauled
I answered all the bugles and the calls
And at every sinking of the sun
I thought of what I’ll do when I get home.Yes, I know just what I’ll do when I get home.
And I know just what I’ll do when I get home.
I’m gonna keep my fires burning
I’m gonna keep my wheels a turning
I’m gonna keep my people free when I get home.I lifted your shells and dropped your bombs.
Saw this town and other towns blowed down.
I talked to every Joe in the kingdom come
Told him everything I’ll do when I get home.Yes, I know just what I’ll do when I get home.
And I know just what I’ll do when I get home.
I’m gonna keep my fires burning
I’m gonna keep my wheels a turning
I’m gonna keep my people free when I get home. 

When My Good Ship Went Down
I was there when my good ship went down
I was there when my good ship went down
I shook you by your hand and thought of home again
I was there when my good ship went downOh the night was as bright as the day
Oh the night was as bright as the day
All my comrades feeling fine as we drank a jug of wine
I was there when my good ship went downI seen the doctors walking in the night
I seen doctors there walking in the night
And the doctor drunk his whiskey as I drunk my wine
I was there when our good ship went downI seen the gunboy was carried from his deck
I seen the gunboy was carried from his deck
The doctor took a drink and sewed ten stitches in his neck
I was there when our good ship went downSeventy gunners was at the movie down below
Seventy gunners at the movie down below
They grabbed films in their hands and looked at it by matches
I was there when my good ship went downI heard the old bos'n laugh out on the deck
I heard the old bos'n laugh out on the deck
I don't give a good Goshdern if I lose my bloody neck
I was there when my good ship went downI heard our captain yell down from off his bridge
I heard our captain yell down from off his bridge
"We've got a thirty six foot hole in our number two hatch"
I was there when my good sip went downGo stand by your lifeboats men and wait
Go stand by your lifeboats men and wait
If she rolls over another inche we will leave her to the sea
I was there when our good ship went downI see six ships go up in the night
I seen six ships go up in the night
I seen bright explosions and I knew this was the fight
I was there when my good ship went downIn the morning when the sun come to the skies
In the morning when the sun come to the skies
We was drifting all alone and not another ship in sight
I was there when my good ship went downThis was just one thing them Nazis have done
This is just one little thing the Nazis gone and done
I hope that you will remember when the war is won and gone
I was there when my good ship went down 

When The Curfew Blows
The lonesomest sound, boys,
I ever heard sound, boys,
On the stroke of midnight,
Hear the curfew blow.My buddy will hang, boys,
On the hangman's rope, boys,
On the Gallus Pole, boys,
When the curfew blows.Hear the curfew blowing,
Hear the curfew blowing,
In the coal black midnight,
Hear the curfew blow.The sheriff's men, boys,
Are on my trail, boys,
In the midnight wind, boys,
Hear the curfew blow.And when they catch me,
My body will hang, boys,
On the Gallus Pole, boys,
When the curfew blows.Hear the curfew blowing,
Hear the curfew blowing,
In the coal black midnight,
Hear the curfew blow. 

When The Roses Bloom Again
They were strolling in the gloaming
Through the roses were in bloom,
A soldier and his sweetheart brave and true;
And their hearts were filled with sorrow
As their thoughts were of tomorrow,
As she pinned a rose upon his coat of blue.Do not ask me, Love, to linger
For you know not what to say,
For Duty calls your Sweetheart’s name again;
And your heart need not be sighing
If I be among the dying;
I’ll be with you when the Roses bloom again.When the Roses Bloom again beside the River,
And the mockingbird has sung his sweet refrain;
In the Days of Auld Lang Syne,
I’ll be with you Sweetheart mine,
I’ll be with you when the Roses bloom again.With the rattle of the battle
Came a whisper soft and low,
A soldier who had fallen in the fray;
I am dying, I am dying, and I know I have to go,
But I want to tell you before I pass away:There’s a far and distant river
When the Roses are in bloom
A sweetheart who is waiting there for me.
And its there I pray you take me
I’ve been faithful, don’t forsake me,
I’ll be with her when the roses bloom again! 

When The Yanks Go Marching In


Whereabouts Can I Hide
Justice, oh, justice,
Whereabouts can I hide?
Liberty’s locked up by the fascists tonight!
Freedom got sold
For her carcass and bones!
Justice, oh, justice,
Whereabouts can I hide?
                                               
Freedom, oh, freedom,
Whereabouts do you hide?
I looked through my wrecked street, but you I cannot find
Peace got beat up, by the Stormtroops last night.
Freedom, oh, freedom,
Whereabouts do you hide?Democracy, democracy,
Hey, lift up your head!
This is the same curbstone where my family bled.
The voters are voting
Whilst the blood soaks it red.
Democracy, democracy,
Hey, lift up your head!

Who's Going To Shoe Your Pretty Little Feet
Who's gonna shoe your pretty little feet?
Who's gonna glove your hand?
Who's gonna kiss your red ruby lips?
Who's gonna be your man?Papa's gonna shoe my pretty little feet,
Mama's gonna glove my hand,
Sister's gonna kiss my red ruby lips,
I don't need no man.I don't need no man,
I don't need no man,
Sister's gonna kiss my red ruby lips,
I don't need no man.The fastest train I ever did ride,
Was a hundred coaches long,
And the only woman I ever did love,
Was on that train and gone.On that train and gone, boys,
On that train and gone,
The only woman I ever did love,
On that train and gone.Who's gonna shoe your pretty little feet?
Who's gonna glove your hand?
Who's gonna kiss your red ruby lips?
Who's gonna be your man?Papa's gonna shoe my pretty little feet,
Mama's gonna glove my hand,
Sister's gonna kiss my red ruby lips,
I don't need no man.I don't need no man,
I don't need no man,
Sister's gonna kiss my red ruby lips,
I don't need no man. 

Who's My Pretty Baby (Hey Pretty Baby)
Who's my pretty baby?
Who's my pretty baby baby?
You're my pretty baby,
Hey hey, pretty babe.Hey hey, pretty baby,
Hey hey, pretty baby baby,
Ho ho, pretty baby baby
Ha ha, pretty babe.Hey hey, pretty baby,
Ho ho, pretty baby,
Ha ha, pretty baby,
Hey hey, pretty babe.Who'll be my big man?
Who'll be my nice lady?
Who'll be my rumple dumpling?
Hey hey, pretty babe.Who'll be my big man?
Who'll be my nice lady?
Who'll be my apple dumpling?
Hey hey, pretty babe.Hey hey, pretty baby,
Ho ho, pretty baby baby,
Hey hey, pretty baby baby,
Ha ha, pretty babe.Ha ha, pretty baby,
Hee hee, pretty baby baby,
Pretty eyes, big baby
Ha ha, pretty baby.Who's my pretty baby?
Who's gonna be my pretty little baby?
Who's gonna be my pretty little baby?
Who's gonna be my pretty little baby?Hey hey, pretty baby,
And a hey hey hey hey pretty baby,
Ho ho, pretty little baby,
Hey hey pretty baby.Mama's gone away now,
Mama's gone away,
Your mama's gone away now,
Ho ho, pretty babe.Daddy is gone too
Daddy, he's gone too
Daddy, he's gone too
Ho ho, pretty babe.Go to sleep, my baby,
Go to sleep, my baby baby,
Go to sleep, my pretty little baby
Go to sleep, pretty little babe.Go to sleep, my baby,
Ho ho, pretty baby,
Ha ha, pretty baby,
Hey hey, pretty babe.Ho ho, pretty baby,
Ho ho, pretty baby baby,
Ho ho, pretty baby,
Ho ho, pretty babe. 

Why Oh Why
Why can't a dish break a hammer?
Why oh why oh why?!
'Cause a hammer's a hard head.
Goodbye goodbye goodbye.Why, oh why, oh why oh, why?
Why, oh why, oh why?
Because because because because
Goodbye goodbye goodbyeWhy can't a bird eat an elephant?
Why, oh why, oh why?
'Cause an elephant's got a pretty hard skin.
Goodby goodbye goodbye.Why can't a mouse eat a streetcar?
Why, oh why, oh why?
'Cause a mouse's stomach could never get big enough to hold a streetcar.
Goodbye goodbye goodbye.Why does a horn make music?
Why, oh why, oh why?
Because the horn-blower blows it.
Goodbye goodbye goodbyeWhy does a cow drink water?
Tell me why n why?
Because the cow gets thirsty just like you or me or anybody else.
Goodye goodbye goodbye.Why don't you answer my questions?
Why, oh why, oh why?
'Cause I don't know the answers.
Goodby goodbye goodbye.What make the landlord take money?
Why, oh why, oh why?
I don't know that one myself.
Goodbye goodbye goodbye.Why's there no pennies for ice cream
Why, oh why, oh why?
You put all the pennies in the telephone.
Goodbye goodbye goodbye.Why can't a rabbit chase an eagle?
Tell me why, oh why?
'Cause the last rabbit that took out and chased after an eagle didn't come
out so good and that's why rabbits don't chase after eagles that's all I
know about rabbits and eagles?
Because because because.Why ain't my grandpa my grandma?
Why, oh why, oh why?
Same reason your dad's not your mommy.
Goodbye goodbye goodbye.Why couldn't the wind blow backwards?
Why, oh why, oh why?
'Cause it might backfire and hurt somebody and if it
hurt somebody it'd keep on hurting them
Goodbye goodbye goodbye. 

Wild Card In The Hole
Times are gittin hard, folks;
They might git harder still;
No matter who wins office
In that Big House on the hill;
If ya wanta git by at all
I know you already by now should know:Some fellers cuss as good times come and go;
But, I got my wild card in the hole;
Some wise ones play every sucker trick they know;
But, I still got my wild card in the hole.Some Janes line up on that old eazy come;
That's their wild card in the hole;
Some girlies tease for that old eazy mon;
That's her wild card in the hole.Good folks line up for that sweet piece of change;
That's their wild card in the hole;
Some work their stunts on the quick subway train;
That's their wild card in the hole.Slick fingers know where th' little ball will roll;
That's their wild card in the hole;
Some pay for tips where th' wind's gonna blow;
That's their wild card in the hole...Some fellers cuss as good times come and go;
But, I got my wild card in the hole;
Some wise ones play every sucker trick they know;
But, I still got my wild card in the hole.Shake the sucker dry
I'm a letting ya on th' inside fur nuttin'Times are gittin hard, folks;
They might git harder still;
No matter who wins office
In that Big House on the hill;
If ya wanta git by at all
I know you already by now should know 

Wild Cyclone
Well, they give him his orders in Monroe, Virginia
Saying, "Pete, you're way behind time.
This ain't 38, but it's old 97
And you've got to be in Center on time."But he turned around to his black greasy fireman
Said, "Shovel in a little more coal.
When we cross that White Oak Mountain
You can watch old 97 roll."Well, it's a mighty rough road from Lakesburg to Danville
and a line on a three mile grade
It was on this grade that he lost his airbrakes
And you see what a jump he madeHe was a-going down the grade making ninety miles an hour
And his whistle broke out in a scream
It was on that grade that he lost his airbrakes
And you see what a jump he madeWell, ladies, you can all take warning
From this time now and on
Never speak harsh words to your true loving husband
He might leave you and never come homeHe was a-going down the grade making ninety miles an hour
And his whistle begin to scream
And we found him in the wreck with his hand on his throttle
and scalded to death by the steamWell, ladies, you can all take warning
From this time now and on
Never speak harsh words to your true loving husband
He might leave you and never return 

Will Rogers Highway
This big highway goes from coast to coast,
From New Yorker town down to Los Angeles;
It's named for Willy Rogers that went on this road
From New Yorker town down to Los Angeles .My Sixty-Six highway, this Will Rogers road,
It's lined with jalopies just as far as I can see;
Can you think up a joke, Will, for all o'these folks
From New Yorker town down to Lost Angeles?Ten thousand lost families I count every day
Caught under my bridges and under my trees;
Can you make up a joke that'll win them a job
From New Yorker town down to Lost Angeles?I love Willy Rogers, I love your big smile,
I go to my showhouse, Will Rogers to see;
Can you grin up a tale that'll feed my folks stranded
'Twist New Yorker town and Lost Angeles?This Will Rogers highroad I hitched lots o'times;
All day long you sizzle; all night long I freeze;
Did ye tickle Hoover enuf ta build us all houses
From New Yorker town down to Lost Angeles?Willy Rogers got born down around Oolagah,
In my great Indian nation of the Cherokee;
My Indians all call this the Hungry Gut Highway
From New Yorker town down to Lost Angeles.I bummed this good road with folks you call Goons,
And your high families called us the lost refugees;
You hafta go back, Will, and tickle 'em again
From New Yorker town down to Lost Angeles. 

Will You Miss Me?
When death'll close my eyelids
And my race on earth is run,
Will you miss me when I'm gone?Will you miss me (miss me miss me miss me)
Will you miss me (miss me when I'm gone)
Will you miss me when I'm gone?Come and set yourself beside me
Come and set beside my bed.
Lay your hand upon my brow
While my achin' heart grows dead.Will you miss me (miss me miss me miss me)
Will you miss me (miss me when I'm gone)
Will you miss me when I'm gone?Will you miss me (miss me miss me miss me)
Will you miss me (miss me when I'm gone)
Will you miss me when I'm gone? 

Wimmen's Hats
 

Woman At Home
Your Folk song singers all go around a singing
How bad are the men, how sinful are the women:
I got a woman at home with her door left open for me;
I got a woman at home with her gate wide open for me.These singers going round do the same old thing
Run all my women down on your slick-slidin' string
I got a woman at home with her screen left open for me
I got a woman at home with her blinds wide open for me.You grizzly bear boys all of you fall high flyers
You're sixteen kids behind me in the passion fires
I got a woman at home with her door left open for me
I got a woman at home with her gate wide open for me.I'm a high ballad man, I'm a folk singer too;
I sing about the good things men and women do;
I got a woman at home with her sheets left open for me;
I got a woman at home with her blanket wide open for me.I was first born a-singin' in this big world,
Raised by the laborin' movements of a hundred pretty girls;
I got a woman at home with her arms left open for me.
I got a woman at home with her hands wide open for me. 

Woody's and Lefty Lou's Theme Song
Drop whatever you are doing,
Stop your work and worry, too;
Sit right down and take it easy,
Here comes Woody and Lefty Lou.You just drop a card or letter,
We will sing a song for you,
We're easy goin' country people
Plain ole Woody and Lefty Lou(That's what we sing when we're cranking up and a-fixin' to come onto the air waves,
then after we have throughly wrecked the studio, here's what we sing):So long! We'll see you in the morning,
We'll be singing when we do,
If you've got a favorite number,
Write to Woody and Lefty LouIf you like our kind of singing,
I'm gonna tell you what to do,
Get your pencil and your paper
Write to Woody and Lefty LouIf you're ever sad and lonely,
Bring your folk and chilluns too,
Hitch your bay mare to your buggy
Come see Woody and Lefty LouDon't forget us in the morning,
We won't be forgettin' you,
We ain't never seen a stranger,
Plain ole Woody and Lefty Lou.*This song is available in the "Pastures of Plenty: The Unpublished Writings of Woody Guthrie" edited by Harold Leventhal and Dave Marsh. This book is no longer in print. 

World's On Fire
I signed aboard some sea ships
Just to see the ocean roll;
I flew the clouds in airplanes
Just to satisfy my soul.
Up in that big blue heaven
My hopes can freely roam
I will build my sundried brickwall
Where my soul can feel at home.

My angel, my darling,
When that atom bomb does come;
Let me by your pillow
While this world’s on fire.

Wildfire will run crawling
While the walls will come falling;
Lay your weary head down
While the world’s on fire.

When the flames go creeping;
When the smoke plume is leaping;
We’ll play like we’re sleeping
While the world’s on fire.

While the skies they’re clearing
We’ll rise up dreaming;
Build our city from the ashes
When the world was on fire.

My angel, my darling,
When that atom bomb does come;
Let me by your pillow
While this world’s on fire. 

Worried Man Blues
It takes a worried man to sing a worried song,
It takes a worried man tossing a worried song,
I'm worried now but I won't be worried long!Went across the river, I lay down to sleep;
Went across the river, I lay down to sleep,
When I woke up.had shackles on my feet!Twenty one links of chain around my leg;
Twenty one links of chain around my leg;
And on each link.there's an initial of my name!The train ride is twenty one coaches long;
Train I ride is twenty one coaches long;
And the gal I love . is on that train and gone!Asked that judge what's gonna be fine;
Asked that judge what's gonna be fine;
Twenty one years on that rooky mountain line!Twenty one years to pay my awful Crime!
Twenty one years to pay my awful crime!
Twenty one years! And I still got ninety Nine!

Wreck of The Old 97
Well, they give him his orders in Monroe, Virginia
Saying, "Pete, you're way behind time.
This ain't 38, but it's old 97
And you've got to be in Center on time."

But he turned around to his black greasy fireman
Said, "Shovel in a little more coal.
When we cross that White Oak Mountain
You can watch old 97 roll."

Well, it's a mighty rough road from Lakesburg to Danville
and a line on a three mile grade
It was on this grade that he lost his airbrakes
And you see what a jump he made

He was a-going down the grade making ninety miles an hour
And his whistle broke out in a scream
It was on that grade that he lost his airbrakes
And you see what a jump he made

Well, ladies, you can all take warning
From this time now and on
Never speak harsh words to your true loving husband
He might leave you and never come homeHe was a-going down the grade making ninety miles an hour
And his whistle begin to scream
And we found him in the wreck with his hand on his throttle
And scalded to death by the steamWell, ladies, you can all take warning
From this time now and on
Never speak harsh words to your true loving husband
He might leave you and never return 

You And I
You And I
Words by Woody Guthrie, Music by Jonatha Brooke 

You Better Get Ready
I had a dream the other night.
Sing on, brother, sing;
About this war we've got to fight
Sing on, brother, sing;
I dreamt the Devil come to me,
And he woke me up from out of my sleep;
And here is what he said to me,
Sing on, brother, sing.: You better get ready, brother!
You better get ready, sister!
You better get ready,
'Cause you know you've got to fight!
You better get ready, brother!
You better get ready, sister!
You better get ready,
'Cause you may be called tonight!I raised up from out o' my bed;
Sing on brother, sing!
And to the devil, this I said:
Sing on, brother, sing!
Pray, tell me, sir, what brings you here?
Trifling? Gambling? Wine or beer?
Or is my doomsday drawing near?
Sing on, neighbor, sing.The Devil opened his big black book;
Sing on, sister, sing!
He opened it up and took a look;
Sing on, brother, sing!
He read off Adolph Hitler's name;
He said "Old Hell just ain't the same!
Compared to the Nazis, Hell's too tame!"
Sing on, sisters, sing!I then pulled on my fighting pants;
Sing on, brother, sing!
The Devil of Hell he sung and danced!
Sing on, sister, sing!
He said: "If you'll go and win this war,
And chase that super chase out for sure,
I'll never raise Hell on earth no more!"
Sing on, parder, sing! 

You Know The Night
You Know The Night
Words by Woody Guthrie, Music by Jackson Browne & Rob Wasserman
Excerpt from You Know The Night, 4/1943You know the night I met you
My eyes had been
Looking for you all over everywhere.
Over low roads. Down highways. Bald deserts.
But looking
Without finding you.
That was it.
And the season why this was so
was because
I had seen so much troubled
waters and storms on the streets.
And this caused me
To want to do
Something about it.
Something to help not only just us
But people of all kinds come closer and
closer
and closer together.You know the night.Your eyes had this same shine
about them I noticed
and when I first looked through
the wild wayward mist
I felt such a warm friendly cool
sunny smile
That I wanted to look in your
Eyes for all time
I just felt like you feel when
you feel like the angels are curling your
hair and you feel like the devil is
scratching your heel.But if my jellied brain turns to
ashes and sand
There will still be such night smiles
across all the land
There will still be
Such faces
Meeting here in this dark
and there 'round the corner or
maybe the park.
It is when we meet this way
and look
at each other
we get hold of our scattered aims
and
Bring them
and beat them
and wrestle
and fight them
and heat them
and beat them and weld them
together
Like iron from the valley
and fire from the skies
This blast furnace heat burns
in our peoples eyes.
And from a raw aimless hunk
of dead matter
our love gives it vision
and love gives it shape
and it's born and it works
Like a new little baby
It sputters
It mutters
It goes and it stutters
and walks on the sidewalks
and falls in the gutters.
But it always and always seems
to move and be able
To get up. To raise up.
up on its feet again.Did you feel this way too when I met you?
Did you look at me
and think
Here's me a guy
That hopes like I hope
and sees the same kind of new
dreams I see?Because you wondered, I know
If your hopes could find shape in
the words that we used there to work back the fog -
Your hopes and your plans for the
good of the people
Could all of your hundred and one
Dreams just as bright as the sun
and all of your wants and your hottest
desires
Find shape in the flow of my talk?and there by ourselves while the bronze
statues watched us
We talked some. Kept still for
a time. Talked a little more.
Your hair had the smell of cleaness
about it and the wind helped my fingers to
play with your curls -
and the wind and the mist caused the
night to blow colder and we brought our hopes
there a little bit closer -
Hopes that we hoped
Work that we wanted
Jobs we were doing, aimed to do.
Quiet idle words, of the church and
the steeple. The union. The war.
And the world full of people.
And you gave my mind such a
deep kind of light
It blasted the fog.
It blew up the night.
It pulled back the curtains of
clouds from above us
and all of the stars came out and
winked at us
and I yelled up at the stars
and said
You stars! Go ahead! Shine as
bright as you want to!
Light up this round world and shine
if you want to!And it was brighter than usual
and for some reason or other
The night
Turned off clear. And so cold.
It caused me to snuggle up closer
and hold
Hold on
Hold on to the ground we had gained.
Hold on to the new inch of life we discovered.
Hold on to the night.We exchanged our dreams as we sat
there a while
word by word.
Plan by plan.
Mile by mile.You looked a bit hungry and skinny to
me but
I had me the notion you'd soon fatten up.
You know how love is and you know
how dreams are. If you don't stay in love you
soon wilt away and you get sort of hungry
looking they say. So I thought you'd fill out
and look a lot better with a little work and
the right kind of weather.
You knew I was raily and some out of
shape. And you knew that my eyes and my
feet didn't mate. I was hunched and walked
crooked - but you overlooked this because
with the right kind of home life and care
my old carcass and brain could be good
for more wear.Your grace of walk and action drove
me into fits. I tried to, but couldn't
think about anything else. This world
is an awful big machine and it moves
all together. No force on earth can
hold it back - and I am in all of this
and moving with it - and I feel the
motion and the rhythm of the universe
moving with these planets.And moving the earth along with them.
And the earth moving the people
Along
With it
And the attraction of your face and
your form
Pulled me. Pushed me. Drew me.
It was ten thousand times stronger than
all of the rest of these
Powers multiplied by ten.And I felt harmony and sweetness
and felt strife
And wanted to walk with you as my wife
Down to the foamy docks to ride a
good boat
Across the troubled waters of this
life.You know the night I met you.
You know the night I met you
My eyes had been
Looking for you all over everywhere.
Over low roads. Down highways. Bald deserts.
I just felt like you feel when
you feel like the angels are curling your
hair and you feel like the devil is
scratching your heel. 

You Souls of Boston
You souls of Boston, bow your heads,
Our two most noble sons are dead;
Sacco and Vanzetti both have died,
And drifted out with the Boston tide.'Twas on the outskirts of this town,
Some bandits shot two pay clerks down,
On old Pearl Street in South Braintree,
They grabbed that money and rolled away.Sacco and Vanzetti got arrested then
On a trolley car by the plainclothesmen,
Carried down to the Brockton jail
And laid away in a lonesome cell.The folks in Plymouth town did say
Vanzetti sold fish in Suassos Lane,
His fish cart was thirty two miles away
From old Pearl Street this fatal day.Sacco's family hugged and kissed their dad,
Said, "Take this family picture to the passport man."
He was in that office forty-odd miles away
From old Pearl Street his fatal day.One lady by the name of Eva Splaine
Saw the robbers jump in their car and drive away.
For a second and a half she seen this speeding car,
And she swore Sacco was the bandit man.It was twenty, or thirty, or fifty more,
Said Sacco was not in that robbers' car
Judge Webster Thayer stuck by Eva Splaine,
Said Sacco was their guilty man.Mrs. Sacco was heavy then with child
She walked to Sacco's cell and cried.
The Morelli Gang just down the corridor
Signed confessions they killed those payroll guards."We seen Mrs. Sacco pregnant there,
We heard her cry and tear her hair,
We had to ease our guilty hearts
And admit we killed those payroll guards."Judge Webster Thayer could not allow
The Morelli Gang's confession to stop him now.
Sacco and Vanzetti are union men,
And that verdict, guilty, must come in.The bullet expert took the stand,
Said the bullets from the bodies of the two dead men
Could not have been fired from Sacco's gun,
Nor from Vanzetti's gun have come.It was sixty-three days this trial did last,
Then seven dark years come a crippling past,
Locked down in that mean old Charlestown Jail,
Then by an electric spark were killed.Old Boston City was a dark old town
This summer's night in June the switch went down,
The people they cried and marched and sung
In every tongue this world around.You souls of Boston, bow your heads,
Our two most noble sons are dead.
Where the people's army marches now to fight,
Sacco and Vanzetti will give us light. 

You'd Ought To Be Satisfied Now
You jacked me up and you run me down
You nagged at me and you bawled me out
You made me leave town and I'm frisco bound
You'd ought to be satisfied now.You took my silver, you took my gold,
You made me believe every lie that you told
You left me a standing out there in the cold
You'd ought to be satisfied now.I'm down in this gutter I'm hungry, I'm cold,
You're drinking and gambling and wasting our dough
You'll never pay back that money you owe (yes, you owe)
You'd ought to be satisfied now.You went around with whoever you pleased
I stood in the rain in my B. V. D.'s
There was times when I thought I would freeze
You'd ought to be satisfied now.You got a new lover richer than me
You got a car and a boat on the sea
You spend all her money just to go on a spree
You'd ought to be satisfied now.I'm down in this gutter I'm hungry, I'm cold,
You're drinking and gambling and wasting our dough
You'll never pay back that money you owe (yes, you owe)
You'd ought to be satisfied now.I once had a fortune, you took that away,
A thousand cold dollars you spent every day
Tonight I'm a bum on a frisco bound train
You'd ought to be satisfied now. 

Your Sandal String
John the Baptist says of Jesus
The Son of God to you I bring
God he knows that I'm not worthy
To undo your sandal string:
To undo your sandal string
To undo your sandal string
Christ you know that I'm not worthy
To undo your sandal string
To undo your sandal stringI preach in jail I teach in prison
God's good song of love I sing
A son of God I shout before you
I couldn't undo your sandal stringMy jailer cut off my head in prison
On your silvery platter to your queen
My head spoke that I'm not worthy
To undo your sandal string (2x) 

Your Smile Cured Me
You might not have known it
Because maybe I’ve not shown it
But if you wanta really know what got me up
And on the go
What patched me up
From my head to my toe
What got me ready for my battle rattle
Way over here, my rain and snow
You wanta know, sweet dear, sweet dear
Your smile cured me
Your smile you threw across my ward here
Saved my neck
And cured my hide
Your big laugh got me fixed out
And your smile cure me.
Your smile cure me.

